WELCOME TO THE AUGUST 16TH
REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
THAT&apos;S PROVIDED OVER THERE.
&gt;&gt; MR. LEONARD WILL YOU CALL
THE ROLE?
&gt;&gt; WELL, I&apos;M SURE YOU COULD
HANDLE PRESENT COMMISSIONER
RAYBANS COMMISSIONER SILVER,
YOU&apos;RE COMMISSIONER MILLS&apos; HERE
,COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE, COMMISSIONER DISH HERE
COMMISSIONER BE HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER HERE
COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE A READY
WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM THREE
WHICH THE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE COMMISSIONER WHICH
MOVED OR SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MELS ANY
DISCRETION THE DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY I IT
PASSES ALREADY ONTO ITEM FOUR
WHICH IS MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING.
I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES COMMISSIONER MILLS&apos;
COMMISSIONER OLLI ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES?
&gt;&gt; NO DISCUSSION, ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY I PASSES
ALREADY.
NEXT STEP IS ITEM NUMBER FIVE
WHICH IS REPORT FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING ALL ALL THE VARIOUS
COMMITTEES AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE I BELIEVE WE ARE
STARTING COMMISSIONER DISH I AM
VERY PLEASED TO REPORT THAT OUR
AMENDMENTS TO THE UDC PASSED IN
SECOND READING.
THOSE ARE THE AMENDMENTS WITH
RESPECT TO THE FACILITIES AND
STREET TREES AND THE REALLY BIG
NEWS IS THAT THE LIBERATION
OF THE CITY FROM PARKING
MINIMUMS HAS BEEN ACHIEVED AND
WE ARE THERE WAS MUCH
EXCITEMENT AT LAST NIGHT&apos;S
MEETING FROM THE AUDIENCE AND
ON FIRST READING THE DEPOT
STREET PD WENT THROUGH WITH
NARY A MURMUR.
SO I DON&apos;T I NEVER KNOW IF
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE MORE CHAT
THE SECOND TIME BUT NO ONE
RAISED ANYTHING SO AND I&apos;M
SORRY THAT I WAS I REALIZED I
WAS OUT OF THE COUNTRY FOR THAT
MEETING BUT I WATCHED IT SO I
DID MY BEST TO REPRESENT WHAT
YOU ALL DID AND YOU WERE VERY
EFFECTIVE.
THANK YOU MR LEINERT.
ANY REPORT FROM PLANNING?
&gt;&gt; YES, A FEW QUICK REPORTS I
THINK ALSO UM I COULD BE
MISTAKEN.
I THINK THE PRIOR COUNCIL
MEETING ALSO OCCURRED AFTER OUR
LAST PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING BECAUSE THOSE TWO WERE
FLIPPED BECAUSE OF THE PRIMARY
ELECTION.
I THINK THE COUNCIL MEETING WAS
THURSDAY THAT WE WANT ME TO
QUICKLY LOOK AT MY NOTES.
&gt;&gt; UM, I THINK THE SIGNIFICANT
ITEM ON THAT AGENDA WAS THE
OTHER COMPONENT OF OUR SORT
OF UDC CHANGES WHICH WAS
MODIFICATIONS TO THE R TO A LOT
SIZES AND THE ADDITION
OF RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS INTO
THE UM ONE VOTING DISTRICT AS A
PERMITTED USE.
SO I THINK THOSE WERE
ORIGINALLY SORT OF PACKAGED
TOGETHER BUT THEY ENDED UP ON
DIVERGENT CITY COUNCIL AGENDAS.
UM, JUST TO NOTE ABOUT THIS
EVENING&apos;S AGENDA, THE
PETITIONER FOR THE FLAT ROAD
PETITION HAS REQUESTED TABLING
OF THAT ITEM.
UM, MY UNDERSTANDING OF THE
PETITION IS GOING TO CONSIDER
SOME SIGNIFICANT REDESIGN TO
WHAT HAS BEEN PROPOSED.
MY APOLOGIES TO THE COMMISSION
TO THE PUBLIC THAT WE RECEIVED
THAT NEWS AFTER WE SCHEDULED IT
FOR THIS AGENDA.
MY RECOMMENDATION ON THAT ITEM
WOULD A PUBLIC HEARING WAS
HELD.
MY RECOMMENDATION WOULD BE TO
HOLD A PUBLIC HEARING, SOLICIT
ANY COMMENTS.
I&apos;M HAPPY TO TAKE ANY SORT OF I
WOULD SUGGEST HIGH LEVEL
COMMENTS FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO REFER IT BACK BUT
THEN IT&apos;LL BE RE NOTICED AND
RESCHEDULE FOR A FUTURE
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; ONCE THAT PETITION IS
RECONSIDERED, WILL WE EXPECT A
A REPORT FROM THEM STILL OR ARE
THEY NOT GOING TO PARTICIPATE?
DON&apos;T EXPECT A REPORT BECAUSE
WE ANTICIPATE A DIFFERENT
DEVELOPMENT COULD BE CONSIDERED
ALREADY READY.
THAT&apos;S ALL I GOT.
OK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE
OFFICERS FOR OTHER LIAISONS
LOOKS LIKE NOTHING TO REPORT.
&gt;&gt; OK WE WILL MOVE ON THEN TO
ITEM NUMBER SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK ON ITEMS THAT
ARE NOT ON THE AGENDA FOR
TONIGHT.
SO WE&apos;LL FIRST CALL ON PEOPLE
WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE ROOM AND
THEN WE&apos;LL MOVE TO PROMOTE
PARTICIPANTS SO TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESTATYN LINE OF LISTENING BY
PHONE AND OR USE THE PHRASE
HAND FEATURE IF YOU SEE THE WEB
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING
EIGHTY NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX AND
YOU WOULD PRESS STAR SIX TWO ON
MUTE SO THAT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HANDS USED IN THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
YOU WILL TO AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS PRIOR TO YOU SPEAKING.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT IN THE
ROOM THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
ON ANYTHING THAT IS NOT ON THE
AGENDA FOR LATER THIS EVENING
?
YOU CAN YOU HAVE TO IF YOU CAN
COME UP OTHERWISE PEOPLE THAT
ARE VIEWING REMOTELY CAN&apos;T HEAR
WHAT YOU&apos;RE ASKING.
&gt;&gt; SO SINCE THE ROAD HAS BEEN
TABLED I MEAN WE CAN WE CAN
MENTION ANYTHING ABOUT THAT AT
THIS POINT.
I BELIEVE WE&apos;RE STILL GOING TO
HAVE THE PUBLIC HEARING ON THAT
EVEN THOUGH WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO
GET A PRESENTATION ON IT.
SO YES, WE WOULD HEAR YOU
DURING THAT PRESENTATION.
SO YOU SHOULD HOLD YOUR
COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M TOLD THAT THAT COMES UP
OK.
THANK YOU FOR CLARIFYING THAT
ALREADY.
ITEM NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT MEETING.
MR. LEONARD, WE HAVE NO
SPEAKERS ON LINE BY THE WAY,
INDICATING A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
DURING PUBLIC.
&gt;&gt; OH, THANK YOU.
SORRY FOR THE NEXT FOUR THIS
SEPTEMBER 7TH PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING WE HAVE NO
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED.
HOWEVER, AS A REMINDER TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION, THE
VILLAGES OF ANN ARBOR, A LARGE
SITE NEAR DAVOREN AND PIONEER
TRAIL HAS BEEN WAS POSTPONED TO
THAT ITEM.
SO WE ANTICIPATE THAT PROJECT
COMING BACK FOR CONSIDERATION.
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL RIGHTY.
SO THEN WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER EIGHT WHICH IS REGULAR
BUSINESS.
UM, SO THIS IS WHERE WE WILL BE
COVERING THE PRATT ROAD
TOWNHOME SITE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL AND WHAT
LAND USE PERMIT.
THE ADDRESS IS THREE SIX EIGHT
OH THREE SIX NINE SIX THREE
SEVEN FOUR SIX AND THREE SEVEN
EIGHT EIGHT ROAD FILE NUMBERS
S.B TWO TWO ZERO ZERO ONE AND W
UP TO TWO DASH ZERO ZERO ONE.
SO THE LET&apos;S SEE HANG ON ONE
SECOND HERE SHOVEL ALL MY
THINGS HERE.
&gt;&gt; OROTON HOMESITE PLAN FOR
CITY COMMISSION APPROVAL A
PROPOSAL FOR THE CONSTRUCTION
OF FORTY THREE TOWNHOMES AND
ELEVEN BUILDINGS ON AN EIGHT
POINT FOUR ACRE SITE IN THE OUR
THREE TOWN HALL ZONING
TOWNHOUSE ZONING DISTRICT
PRIMARY ACCESS TO THE SITE FOR
PLATTE ROAD APPROVAL IS SUBJECT
TO APPROVAL OF COMBINING FOR
LOTS VARIANCE FROM STREET TREES
LOCATED OUTSIDE THE RIGHT
OF WAY AND A WETLAND USE PERMIT
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS TABLING
AS REQUESTED BY THE PETITIONER
ALREADY SO WE WILL NOT HAVE A
PETITION OR PRESENTATION.
WILL WE HAVE ANY KIND OF STAFF
ANYTHING?
NO, WE&apos;RE NOT PLANNING ON
PRESENTATION.
THERE&apos;S ANYTHING WE WOULD
PRESENT WE DON&apos;T KNOW THAT IS
ACCURATE ANYMORE.
WE ANTICIPATE A PRETTY
DIFFERENT PROJECT SO I WOULD
SORT OF WE DID RECEIVE SOME
FEEDBACK I THINK AND
COMMUNICATIONS ON THIS.
I WOULD JUST USE THIS AS AN
OPPORTUNITY IN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR ANY COMMENT THAT
YOU HEAR FROM THE PUBLIC
HEARING OR ANY SORT OF IDEAS
THAT YOU HAD FROM YOUR INITIAL
CONSIDERATION THAT SORT OF A
HIGH LEVEL I WOULD TAKE THOSE
COMMUNICATE THOSE BACK TO THE
PETITIONER AS THEY CONSIDER
ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS FOR
DEVELOPMENT OF THAT SITE.
WE COULD SHARE THAT WITH YOU.
OK, OK, THANK YOU ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WILL OPEN A PUBLIC
HEARING THEN FOR THE PRATT ROAD
AND SO THIS IS AGAIN WE WILL
FIRST CALL ON PEOPLE IN THE
ROOM AND THEN WE&apos;LL MOVE
REMOTELY SO TO PARTICIPATE
REMOTELY STANADYNE IF USING
YOUR LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND THEN ARE MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME THROUGH
THE WEBLINK HERE NOT AN
AUTOMATED NOT WITH THE POLICIES
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE QUIET AREA
AND ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENT SO WE WILL
START WITH PEOPLE IN THE ROOM
SO SURIMI YOU MAY COME UP AS
YOU DID BEFORE TO BE ABLE TO
SHARE YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PHIL HOON AND I LIVE
THREE ONE FIVE FOUR
WILLIAMSBURG WHICH IS IN
COLONIAL SQUARE ACROSS FROM THE
PROPERTIES WHICH WILL BE THE
CONSTRUCTION WILL TO HAPPEN AND
SO I LIVE ON WILLIAMSBURG AND
SO THEM COMING SOUTH ON I HAVE
TO CROSS A PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
THERE&apos;S A LIGHT WITH A
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING AND AS A
MEDIUM THERE AND THERE&apos;S ABOUT
TWO SPACES THERE TO PUT A CAR
IN THERE.
SO IT&apos;S REALLY A DICEY SPACE
FOR GETTING INTO COLONIAL
SQUARE COMING UP.
SO WITH THIS DEVELOPMENT I&apos;M
REALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
SITUATION.
SO THAT&apos;S MY FIRST CONCERN IS
THAT THE ENTRANCE TO COLONIAL
SQUARE SPECIFICALLY THE
WILLIAMSBURG ENTRANCE TO BE
GIVEN MAJOR CONCERN.
I KNOW I USED TO VISIT THE
FAILED TOWNSHIP PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
MAJOR CONCERNS AT IS THAT THEY
WOULD HAVE A SECOND CONCERN
THAT I HAVE IS THAT ADJACENT TO
THE SPACE IS SCARLETT MITCHELL
WOODS AND THIS PROPERTY KIND
OF SITS BETWEEN SCARLETT
MITCHELL WOODS AND THE MARY
DOYLE PRESERVE BASICALLY.
AND AS A RESULT THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF ANIMALS THERE THAT THAT MOVE
THROUGH THAT SPACE IN IS
BASICALLY AS A PART OF THAT
WHOLE CORRIDOR THAT THOSE
ANIMALS HAVE.
SO I HAVE ALSO CONCERN FOR FOR
OUR FURRY FRIENDS.
SO WE HAVE A CONCERN FOR FOLKS
IF YOU WANT TO THINK ABOUT IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI, MY NAME&apos;S ALEX LOWE.
I LIVE IN WARD THREE JUST ON
FERNWOOD RIGHT NEAR THE
WILLIAMSBURG DEVELOPMENT OR
COLONIAL TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT.
I AM VERY MUCH IN FAVOR OF THIS
TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT.
MY ONLY REAL CONCERN IS CAN WE
HAVE MORE PLEASE?
CAN YOU HAVE MORE OF MORE
OF THE TOWNHOMES ON THIS LAND?
A BIT A LITTLE BIT MORE
DENSITY.
THIS IS A GREAT LOCATION TO SEE
.
I TRIED TO GET ON THE BUS TO
HAVE A BIKE DEVELOPMENT TO WALK
OVER TO THE NEARBY SHOPS BUT AT
BUT WE SHOULDN&apos;T BE LIMITING
THOSE TO FORTY THREE IF WE CAN
GET 50 OR 60 OR 70 THAT
TOWNHOMES A PART OF IT I&apos;D
REALLY LIKE TO JUST TO TO SEE
THAT I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO SEE TO
SEE THAT THE DEVELOPER IS
COMING THROUGH LOOKING AT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE
SUSTAINABILITY DOCUMENT THAT
THAT THEY RECEIVED BECAUSE IT
LOOKS LIKE THE IN THE SECOND
ROUND THEY HAVEN&apos;T MADE ANY
CHANGES THAT AT THAT ADDRESS
THAT HOPEFULLY IN THE THIRD
ROUND THEY&apos;LL ADDRESS THIS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM THAT
WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE TO SPEAK
ON THE ROAD PROJECT?
&gt;&gt; OK, WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
VIRTUAL WORLD.
ANYBODY IN LINE FOR THAT, MR
LEONARD?
YOU DO CHAIR GRANDAL FIRST IS
SANDRA MUSALLAM.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS SANDRA WARD THREE.
I&apos;M CALLING IN SUPPORT OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AMERICA&apos;S SHORT
FIVE MILLION HOUSING UNITS.
OBVIOUSLY THE 2008 RECESSION
PUT A BIG DENT IN THE AMOUNT
OF AVAILABLE HOUSING AND PART
OF THE REASON THAT ALL OUR
PRICES WERE SKYROCKETING IS
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE NOT BUILDING
ENOUGH HIGH DENSITY
CONSTRUCTION LIKE THIS.
THERE&apos;S PERFECT BECAUSE IT FITS
INTO THE ALREADY EXISTING
STRUCTURE OF ANN ARBOR THAT
MAKES BIKING AND WALKING A
EASIER IT&apos;S IN A GOOD LOCATION
BECAUSE IT USES THE OLD
FARMLAND SO THERE&apos;S NO OLD
GROWTH FORESTS OR ANYTHING TOO
ENVIRONMENTALLY RUSSIA&apos;S
GETTING DISRUPTED.
I JUST REALLY FEEL LIKE IF WE
GET MORE DEVELOPMENT, MORE
DENSITY, MORE HOUSING THAT IS
GOING TO BENEFIT THE COMMUNITY
OVERALL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ADAM MISCAVIGE, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADJUST THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; HI, THIS IS ADAM DISCOVERY
IN THE FOURTH QUARTER I&apos;M IN
GENERAL SUPPORTIVE OF MORE
HOUSING.
I JUST HAD A QUICK QUESTION ON
THIS.
I WAS WONDERING SINCE THE
PETITIONER IS ASKING A CABELAS
AND COME BACK WITH A NEW
REVISED TYPE PLAN, I&apos;M NOT
REALLY SURE EXACTLY WHAT
THEY&apos;RE PLANNING.
WILL THERE BE ANOTHER PUBLIC
HEARING ON THAT SITE PLAN?
SO THAT&apos;S THE QUESTION THAT I
HAVE IN GENERAL.
I&apos;M SUPPORTIVE OF MORE HOUSING
.
I THINK THIS IS A GOOD PLACE TO
PUT IT AND I&apos;D TO ECHO THE
PREVIOUS CALLERS IN SUPPORTING
HIGHER DENSITY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I BELIEVE WE WOULD HAVE ANOTHER
PUBLIC HEARING BECAUSE IT&apos;S A
IT WILL BE A REVISED PLAN THAT
WE WOULD ALL NEED TO BE ABLE TO
EVALUATE SO YOU CAN LOOK
FORWARD TO THAT.
&gt;&gt; NO OTHER SPEAKERS ARE
INDICATING A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
THE QUESTION OK, SO SHOULD I
NOT READ THE MOTION THEN SINCE
WE WILL NOT BE UM SO UM YOU IF
THE COMMISSION WOULD LIKE TO
PROVIDE ANY FEEDBACK OR
DIRECTION I&apos;D SUGGEST READING
THE MOTION FOR DISCUSSION SAKE
YOU ARE COMFORTABLE TAKING THIS
COMMENT AND FORWARDING IT IS
WHAT WE&apos;VE HEARD TO THE
PETITIONER THEN WE COULD
PROCEED RIGHT TO A MOTION TO
TABLE IT&apos;S AT THE DISCRETION
OF THE
OF THE COMMISSION.
SO I WOULD IMAGINE THAT PEOPLE
MAY HAVE SOME THOUGHTS SO WE
SHOULD LIKELY READ THE MOTION
AND HAVE SOME DISCUSSION ON
THIS SO THAT WE CAN GIVE SOME
FEEDBACK TO THE PETITIONER.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SO THE MOTION IS NO CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
BRO&apos;TOWN HOMESITE PLAN LOCATED
AT THREE SIX EIGHT OH OH
THROUGH THREE SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ROAD AND ONE USED FOR IT AS
THEY COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS, ORDINANCES,
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS AND
BASED ON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS WHEN ALL PARCELS
MUST BE COMBINED BEFORE
ISSUANCE OF ANY BUILDING
PERMITS TO FINAL APPROVAL FROM
THE NATIONAL WATER RESOURCE
COMMISSIONER A LANDSCAPE
VARIANCE TO PLANT STREET TREES
OUTSIDE OF THE RIGHT OF WAY AND
FOR EXECUTION OF A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT SUBSTANTIALLY IN THE
FORM ATTACHED ALREADY I BELIEVE
WE CAN BEGIN DISCUSSION
SOMEBODY MOVE IN SO SORRY.
YEP.
COMMISSIONER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LEE.
THANK YOU HEIDI.
DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS JUST MY OBSERVATION
AND LOOKING AT THE PLAN THAT
THEY THERE DOES APPEAR TO BE
ADDITIONAL DENSITY IN TERMS
OF MINIMUM WHAT AREA PER
DWELLING UNIT THAT COULD BE
INCREASED APPEARS TO BE
DEVELOPED AT HALF JUST JUST
OVER HALF OF WHAT&apos;S ALLOWED.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK INCREASING THAT.
I THINK ALSO RECOGNIZING THOUGH
THAT IN TERMS OF THE MINIMUM
OPEN SPACE THERE NEARING THAT.
SO THAT WOULD NOT BE POSSIBLE
LIKE THINKING ABOUT THE
IMPERVIOUSNESS JUST APPEARS TO
BE A LOT OF ROAD IN THE SITE.
THAT WAS MY INITIAL OBSERVATION
.
THERE JUST SEEMED TO BE A LOT
OF PAVEMENT AND SO I RECOGNIZE
THAT THAT WOULD BE A TRICKY
BALANCE BUT THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M
LOOKING FORWARD TO IN IN KIND
OF THE NEXT ITERATION OF THIS
VERSION.
I THINK YOU KNOW, THIS IS THIS
IS A PLACE THAT ZONED FOR THE
SORT DEVELOPMENT.
IT&apos;S A PLACE WHERE WE COULD
HAVE MORE AND SELECT LET&apos;S MAKE
SURE THAT WE GET IT WHILE WE
HAVE IT AND MORE THAN JUST A
CURSORY RESPONSE TO KIND OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS I THINK
WOULD BE WISE COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO I WANT TO ECHO THE DENSITY
THAT WE GIVE A NOTE TO THE
PETITIONER TO AND THEY CAN GET
TO TEN WHICH THE THE R THREE IS
ZONED FOR THAT THEY HIT THE
MAXIMUM DENSITY IF POSSIBLE.
UM SINCE WE&apos;VE PASSED OUR
PARKING WELL REMOVED OUR
PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR THIS
DEVELOPMENT WHICH THEY WERE
SUBJECT TO THEY WERE PLANNING
TO PARKING SPACES IN ADDITION
TO THE GARAGES IN ADDITION TO
THE DRIVEWAYS.
SO I&apos;D ASK THAT THE PETITIONER
CONSIDER REMOVING ONE THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE THAT REQUIREMENT
ANYMORE AND SO IF THEY CAN
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF PARKING
THAT THEY HAVE PROPOSED I WAS
ACTUALLY CONFUSED AROUND THE
OPEN SPACE AND I SENT A NOTE TO
STAFF.
SO MR. LEONARD, I THINK YOU GOT
THE EMAIL AS WELL AS THE REPLY
.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU CAN CLARIFY IT IN
THE REPLY THAT I RECEIVED,
THERE ARE ACTIVE OPEN SPACES
ONLY THREE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
PER DWELLING UNIT WHICH IS JUST
TWELVE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET TOTAL AND STAFF IS
INDICATING THAT IN THE REVISED
PLAN THEY&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE THE
PETITIONER REMOVE OR NOTE THE
PLACEMENT OF THE WETLANDS AND
OTHER SPACES SO THAT THEY ARE
NOT COUNTED IN THAT OPEN SPACE
.
BUT I&apos;M CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT
COMMISSIONER MILLS JUST
INDICATED THAT THEY ARE NEAR
THAT MAXIMUM.
SO IF SOME CLARITY AROUND THAT
CAN BE PROVIDED, I DON&apos;T KNOW
THAT YOU NEED TO PROVIDE IT
HERE SINCE WE&apos;RE NOT ACTUALLY
GOING TO BE WITH THE
PETITIONER.
BUT IF THAT CAN GET CLARIFIED
IN THE REVISED PLANS SO THAT WE
HAVE AN ACCURATE UNDERSTANDING
OF WHERE THEY ARE AND WHERE
THEY NEED TO BE AND HOW IT
INTERSECTS WITH DENSITY BECAUSE
I THINK THAT&apos;S IF I DON&apos;T WANT
TO SPEAK FOR YOU, I&apos;LL SPEAK
FOR MYSELF.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS WHAT I&apos;M CONCERNED
ABOUT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT&apos;S WHAT
COMMISSIONER MILLS IS ALSO
CONCERNED ABOUT AND IN IN MY
CONVERSATIONS WITH RESIDENTS IN
THE AREA, THE THE BIG THING
THAT I HEARD WAS AROUND THE
TREES THAT ARE COMING OFF
BECAUSE THE TREES CREATE FOR
THOSE RESIDENTS WHETHER IT&apos;S
TRUE OR NOT A SOUND BUFFER OFF
OF NINETY FOUR AND SO THEY ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE FACT THAT
THE PETITIONER IS GOING TO
CLEAR ABOUT 80 PERCENT OF THE
TREES.
I THINK THERE ARE TWO HUNDRED
AND NINETY FIVE TREES ON THE
SITE AND THEY&apos;RE GOING TO CLEAR
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHT
OF THEM.
SO HOW ARE THEY PLANNING TO
MITIGATE THAT AND THAT&apos;S
IMPORTANT BECAUSE COUNSEL JUST
HAD A CONVERSATION LAST NIGHT
ABOUT SOUND NUISANCE COMING OFF
OF END 14 AT A LEVEL OF ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED DECIBELS MAINTAINED
WHICH IS A LEVEL THAT CAN
CREATE SUSTAINED HEARING LOSS.
SO HOW DOES THAT ALL FACTOR IN
?
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT IS IN
OUR PURVIEW TO ASK THE
PETITIONER ABOUT IS SOMETHING
THAT CAME THROUGH FROM THE
RESIDENTS RECOGNIZING THAT THIS
IS A BUY RIGHT DEVELOPMENT
THEY&apos;RE STILL CONCERNED ABOUT
THOSE CONCERNS.
&gt;&gt; SO THOSE WERE THE THINGS
THAT THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
DISH.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR IF
TREES DO FIND DO PROVIDE A
SOUND BUFFER SINCE YOU OPEN THE
POSSIBILITY OF THAT QUESTION, I
WOULD LOVE TO NOT GET A FLOOD
OF COMMENTS ABOUT NOISE AS I
GET THEM BECAUSE OF N14 JUST
AND I WAS CANVASING AND
COULDN&apos;T EVEN HEAR MYSELF SPEAK
SO WE&apos;D LOVE TO TO BE MINDFUL
OF SOUND BUT THAT WAS
PIGGYBACKING OFF
OF COMMISSIONER WHICH I NOTICED
WHEN I LOOKED THROUGH THE
MASTER PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT UH
THAT SOME OF THE COMMENTATORS
HAVE ALREADY TOUCHED ON SOME
OF THE PLACES WHERE THE CURRENT
ITERATION OF THIS PROPOSAL IS
FALLING SHORT SUCH AS BUILDING
TO THE DENSITY ALLOWED BUT
ANOTHER THING THAT IS STATED AS
A GOAL FOR THE SOUTH AREA IS
PROVIDING A VARIETY OF HOUSING
TYPES, OWNERSHIP TYPES AND
COSTS AND WE HAVE SEEN A NUMBER
OF PROPOSALS INCLUDING VILLAGE
OF AREA INCLUDING THE DEPOT ST.
PD THAT WE JUST WERE ABLE TO
TALK ABOUT LAST NIGHT THAT ARE
MINDFUL OF THE NEED TO PROVIDE
A VARIETY OF HOUSING TYPES AND
WE&apos;VE SEEN SOME OF THE THERE IS
SOME THERE ARE SOME GOOD
EXAMPLES OF HOW YOU DO THAT
NORTH ON PONTIAC TRAILS.
SO IF THAT&apos;S POSSIBLE, I KNOW
THAT THAT&apos;S A LARGE THING BUT I
JUST AT LEAST THOUGHT THAT I
WOULD MENTION IT BECAUSE I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT IT&apos;S ADDRESSED
AND AND IF SOMEONE CAN ANSWER
MY QUESTION ABOUT THE TREES,
WHETHER IT&apos;S COMMISSIONER
RANDALL OR MR. OR ANYONE ELSE,
I&apos;D LOVE TO HEAR THAT.
I DON&apos;T I CAN&apos;T SPEAK
AUTHORITATIVELY.
I DOUBT THAT DECIDUOUS TREES
PROVIDE MUCH SOUND BARRIER.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT IN MY OWN
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE THAT THEY
DO SOMETHING IN TERMS OF AN
AREA THAT I LIVED IN WHERE WE
WOULDN&apos;T NOTICE THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN SUMMER AND WINTER.
THERE WERE A LOT OF TREES SO A
LOT MORE THAN WHAT THESE ARE.
SO PERHAPS SOME EVERGREENS
WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT BETTER IN
THAT REGARD JUST BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE ON YOU KNOW THEY&apos;RE NOT
DROPPING THEIR NEEDLES IN THE
SAME WAY.
&gt;&gt; BUT YEAH, THIS WAS A RURAL
EXAMPLE IN TERMS OF MY OWN
PERSONAL LIFE.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING THAT&apos;S
KIND OF AUTHORITATIVE AND
SCIENTIFIC.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S JUST MY OWN ANECDOTAL
EXPERIENCE.
WE CAN SEE IF WE HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADDRESS THAT THOUGH.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS I SHOULD JUST
MAKE IT A QUESTION.
HAVE WE DO WE OFFER ANY
PROJECTIONS FOR WHAT SOUND YOU
KNOW, WHAT YOU KNOW AND WE
WOULDN&apos;T BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT AS IF
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE MORE
TRAFFIC ON NINETY FOUR BECAUSE
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I&apos;D LIKE A LITTLE MORE
INFORMATION FROM THEM ON THIS
UM PUBLIC MEETING THAT THE
STAFF REPORT SAYS THAT THEY
HAD.
I CLICK ON THE LINK AND I SEE
NO DATE ON THERE FOR A MEETING
AND NOTHING THAT ANYONE
ATTENDED AND THERE WERE ANY
COMMENTS I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S A
REFERENCE A PUBLIC MEETING.
I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
AH, THIS WOULD BE THE QUANTITY
OF UNITS WOULD NOT REQUIRE A
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION MEETING.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD SIMPLY REQUIRE
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION POSTCARD
IT SO THERE&apos;S NO NEWS MEAN THEY
GOT NO NO INPUT FROM ANYONE ON
THAT BUT YEAH BUT PROBABLY LIKE
TO ME THAT THEY DID NOT RECEIVE
ANY OR THEY DIDN&apos;T I WILL
CONFIRM THAT THEY SHOULD HAVE
THEY SHOULD ASSERT THAT THEY
DID NOT RECEIVE ANY RESPONSES
OR PROVIDE US THE REPORT THAT
MAKES ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
DISCUSSION ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE CAN WRAP THAT UP
THEN THERE&apos;S NO VOTING ON
ANYTHING SO I THINK WE&apos;LL JUST
WRAP UP THE DISCUSSION, MOVE TO
TABLE THE MOTION.
&gt;&gt; I GOT IT.
YES, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, COMMISSIONER WIRCH
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SILVER.
ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE OFFICIALLY TABLED IT.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE A DATE CERTAIN OR
ARE WE LEAVING THAT NOW AS A
TABLE
?
IT IT DOES JUST THAT GOES TO
THE TABLE.
THAT MEANS AS WE DON&apos;T KNOW A
DATE CERTAIN IT WILL BE READ
NOTICE TO ALL ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNERS AT THE TIME IT IS
RESCHEDULED.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM
EIGHT B WHICH IS THE CITY
INITIATED TO ONE REZONING
PETITION FOR ONE HUNDRED AND
NINETY PROPERTIES IN THE WEST
STADIUM AND NORTH MAPLE AREA
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THIS IS THE AMENDMENT TO THE
ZONING MAPS SECTION FIVE POINT
ONE OR POINT TWO OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TO REZONE ONE HUNDRED AND
NINETY PARCELS IN THE WEST
STADIUM AND NORTH MAPLE STREET
AREA TO TAKE ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT EIGHTY SO I
AM ASSUMING WE WILL HAVE A
PRESENTATION BY MR LEO SINCE
SHE HAS POPPED UP ON OUR SCREEN
.
YES INDEED YOU CAN HEAR IT ONE
MINUTE.
I THINK WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF COMMISSIONERS.
OH I&apos;M SORRY.
YES SORRY ABOUT THAT.
SO WE HAVE A COUPLE OF PEOPLE
TO RECUSE THEMSELVES.
COMMISSIONER OVEI AND
COMMISSIONER OR NO.
YES OK YEAH I DON&apos;T HAVE A
COMMENT BUT YEAH AS AS A
LANDOWNER WITHIN THE DESIGNATED
AREA AND IN DIRECT PROXIMITY IN
BOTH CASES I&apos;M GOING TO RECUSE
MYSELF FROM THIS DISCUSSION AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; MY EMPLOYER MANAGES A
PROPERTY LOCATED AT FIVE TEN
SOUTH MAPLE WHICH IS IN
DESIGNATION ZONE SO I WILL BE
RECUSING MYSELF FROM THIS VOTE.
THANK ALL RIGHTY.
WE WILL SEE IN WHILE AS THE
COMMISSIONERS ARE EXIT THIS AS
A REMINDER TO THE REMAINING
COMMISSIONERS THERE ARE SIX
OF YOU THAT REQUIRE SIX
AFFIRMATIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES
TO FORWARD A PETITION WITH A
RECOMMENDATION FOR APPROVAL
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M DOING A CHECK.
MAKE SURE EVERYONE CAN HEAR ME
SINCE I REMOVED WE CAN HEAR YOU
GREAT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
GIVE ME A SECOND.
I&apos;M GOING TO BUILD UP A
PRESENTATION
THAT WRONG BECAUSE
IT&apos;S NOT AT THE BEGINNING.
YOU&apos;RE DOING ALL RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
I AM ALEXIS DELIO AND TONIGHT
I&apos;M PRESENTING A STUDY
INITIATED REZONING OF THE WEST
STADIUM NORTH SOUTH MAPLE AREA
FROM ITS CURRENT WHATEVER ITS
CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION IS
TO TCE ONE TRANSIT CORRIDOR
DISTRICT HERE THE PROPOSED
REZONING AREA IT COVERS ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY TAX PARCELS
ON OR NEAR WEST STADIUM
BOULEVARD AND NORTH AND SOUTH
MAPLE ROAD.
&gt;&gt; IT COVERS ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
AND TEN ACRES.
THE REZONING INCLUDES THESE
ADDRESSES OR ADDRESS RANGES.
WE HAVE A PROPERTY ON ABBOT
AVENUE, BURWOOD AVENUE, SOME ON
COLLINGWOOD DRIVE COMMERCE
DRIVE, SOME ON DEXTER AVENUE OR
RETEXTURE ROAD THAT&apos;S DEPENDING
IF IT&apos;S EAST OR WEST OF MAPLE
ADDRESSES ON FEDERAL BOULEVARD,
ON JACKSON AVENUE, ON WEST
LIBERTY NORTH AND SOUTH MAPLE
PAWLING BOULEVARD ONE ON
SHELBIE, SOME ON WEST STADIUM
AND A COUPLE ON WYNWOOD AVENUE
.
THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ABOUT THE
EXISTING ZONING DESIGNATIONS.
THERE ARE FOURTEEN OR THERE ARE
THESE SEVEN CURRENT ZONING
DESIGNATIONS EXISTING FROM RC
ONE LOCAL BUSINESS OR C ONE BE
COMMUNITY CONVENIENCE CENTER
THE THIRD MOST ARE C TO BE
BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT THE
MOST THAT&apos;S WHY IT&apos;S
HIGHLIGHTED IN BLUE IS C THREE
ORANGE COMMERCIAL EIGHTY FIVE
OR FORTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE
AREA IS THAT THERE ARE A FEW
THAT ARE M1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL
OFFICE ZONING IS FOUND HERE
TOO.
IT&apos;S THE SECOND MOST WITH FORTY
PARCELS.
THERE ARE SOME PARCELS THAT ARE
SOLELY ZONED P A FEW OTHER
PARCELS HAVE SPLIT ZONING THEY
ARE SOMETHING ELSE AND P AND IN
THAT CASE THEY&apos;RE MAIN ZONING
DESIGNATION IS REFLECTED HERE
AND THERE IS ONE THAT IS OWNED
PUDI MATCHING UP WITH THE STAFF
REPORT.
HERE&apos;S A DETAIL OF THE NORTHERN
SECTION AND WE CAN REFER BACK
TO THIS AS PART OF THE
DISCUSSION IF ANYONE WANTS THE
NORTHERN SECTION PURELY
ARBITRARY JUST FOR DISCUSSION
PURPOSES BUT IT IS GENERALLY
BETWEEN DEXTER AND JACKSON.
IT&apos;S BECAUSE SPOT IS THE
VILLAGE SHOPPING CENTER AND A
FEW THAT&apos;S OUT LOTS ARE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES.
IT ALSO INCLUDES THE OLD
GROCERY STORE, A NICE
RESTAURANT AND SOME
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE OR MEDICAL
OFFICES DOWN THE MIDDLE SECTION
IS BETWEEN JACKSON AND LIBERTY
ON ITS NORTH WEST SIDE.
IT&apos;S GOT THE WESTGATE SHOPPING
CENTER ALSO KROGER IT&apos;S JUST
SOUTH OF THAT AND THEN IT HAS
IT&apos;S WHERE STADION BOULEVARD
STARTS.
WALGREENS AND DAIRY QUEEN ARE
UP NEAR THE TOP AND WE&apos;VE GOT
SOME FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS IN
THE MIDDLE CHUNK THERE.
THERE&apos;S ALSO A SECTION AND ONE
ZONING HERE.
MAPLE USED TO BE HAVE MORE AND
ONE ZONING BUT THAT&apos;S BEEN
CHIPPING WAY OVER THE DECADES
INTRODUCING SWITCHING OVER TO
MORE COMMERCIAL AND NOT EVEN
MORE RESIDENTIAL.
HERE YOU SEE WHERE SOME OF THE
POCKETS OF OFFICE ARE BETWEEN
THE C3 AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO
THE EAST AND THEN FINALLY OUR
SOUTHERN SECTION FROM LIBERTY
DOWN PAST PAULENE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S GOT SOME LARGE IT&apos;S
ALSO SOME SHOPPING CENTERS
THERE.
BOULEVARD PLAZA IS A NOTABLE
ONE.
IT HAD THE AREA&apos;S AUTO ORIENTED
FOR AUTO DEALERSHIPS.
IT&apos;S GOT THE POST OFFICE HERE.
IT HAS IT HAS A MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL PARCEL THERE BUT
WHICH IS DON&apos;T SEEM TO BE IT
ALSO USED TO HAVE A LITTLE BIT
MORE INDUSTRIAL THAN CHIPPED
AWAY AND CONVERTED TO OTHER
USES AND CENTERED ON PARKING
ARE SOME OFFICE AND WHICH IS
GENERALLY SPEAKING EITHER
FINANCIAL OR PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES.
THIS AREA IS WELL SERVED BY
TRANSIT.
THERE ARE FIVE ROUTES THAT
CROSS THE CORRIDOR TO THAT ONE
UP AND DOWN ITS LENGTH AND I&apos;LL
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; THE STAFF REPORT GOES OVER
THIS IN A LITTLE MORE DETAIL
BUT THERE ARE EIGHT ELEMENTS TO
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
INCLUDING THE SUSTAINABILITY
FRAMEWORK AND VISION ZERO THE
LAND USE ELEMENT STATE STREET
CORRIDOR, THE DOWNTOWN PLAN,
THE PARKS AND RECREATION OPEN
SPACE PLAN, THE NATURAL FEATURE
MASTER PLAN, THE TREE LINE
ALLEN CREEK URBAN TRAIL MASTER
PLAN AND MOVING TOGETHER TOWARD
VISION ZERO TRANSPORTATION PLAN
TOGETHER THESE MAKE UP OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN COVERING A
COMPREHENSIVE AMOUNT
OF INFORMATION SPECIFIC TO THE
ATC ONE DISTRICT ITS CREATION
AND THEN ITS REZONING TO ITS
REZONING TO THAT DISTRICT.
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE
ELEMENT B PARTICULARLY SPEAKS
TO IT ALSO THAT GOALS OBJECTIVE
ONE AND TWO GOAL B IS TO
PROMOTE LAND USE DESIGNS THAT
REDUCE RELIANCE ON THE
AUTOMOBILE AND OBJECTIVE ONE IS
TO LOCATE HIGHER DENSITY,
HIGHER RESIDENTIAL DENSITIES
NEAR MASS TRANSIT ROUTES AND IN
PROXIMITY TO COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL EMPLOYMENT AND
ACTIVITY CENTERS.
OTHER GOAL THE OTHER OBJECTIVE
SPEAKS TO IMPROVING THE SAFETY,
ACCESSIBILITY AND DESIRABILITY
OF WALKING, BIKING OR USING
MASS TRANSIT WHEN YOU GO C IS
ALSO IN DIRECT ALIGNMENT WITH
WE DON&apos;T RESULT IN THE CORRIDOR
.
COURCEY IS TO PROVIDE A FULL
RANGE OF HOUSING CHOICES SIZE
PRICE DESIGN, ACCESSIBILITY
ETC. THAT MEETS THE EXISTING
AND ANTICIPATED NEEDS OF ALL
CITY RESIDENTS.
I BELIEVE A SPEAKER THE
PREVIOUS PUBLIC HEARING TALKED
ABOUT FIVE MILLION NEEDED IN
THE COUNTRY BUT CERTAINLY WE
NEED MANY MORE HERE IN OUR CITY
ALTHOUGH THE OBJECTIVE TO TALK
ABOUT ENCOURAGING A VARIETY
OF HOUSING TYPES WITH A NEW
RESIDENTIAL AND MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS TO GO E IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND
ELEMENT ALSO SPEAKS TO THIS
QUARTER WITH ZONING WHICH IS TO
ENCOURAGE COMMERCIAL AND
EMPLOYMENT CENTERS TO PROMOTE
PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITY
DEEMPHASIZES THE AUTOMOBILE AND
PROVIDE A SENSE OF BALANCE WITH
SURROUNDING LAND USES
OBJECTIVES ONE AND TWO ARE ALSO
IN ALIGNMENT WITH THIS PROJECT
.
FINALLY, THERE IS NOT A
SPECIFIC LAND USE GOAL IN
MOVING TOGETHER TOWARDS VISION
ZERO THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN
BUT OVERALL IN ITS BREADTH
GOING TOGETHER TOWARDS VISION
ZERO SPEAKS TO BECOMING MORE
TRANSIT ORIENTED, BIKE FRIENDLY
AND PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY AND
LESS RELIANT ON FUEL
CONSUMPTION FORMS OF MOTORIZED
TRAVEL.
IT HAS FIVE KEY MOBILITY GOALS
AND VALUES ADDRESSING SAFETY
MOBILITY ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL
HEALTHY PEOPLE, ACCESSIBLE
PLACES AND THE CREATION OF A TV
DISTRICT PLUS REZONING
CORRIDORS TO THIS DISTRICT ALL
FURTHER
OR SPEAK TO THESE GOALS
ASIDE FROM THE STAFF REPORT I
DID WHAT I DO WANT TO MENTION
AND SHARE A FEW MORE BENEFITS
OF CORRIDOR REZONING SOME
OF THE MAPS EARLIER AND WE CAN
CIRCLE BACK TO THEM.
BUT ON MAPS EARLIER SHOWED THE
SORT OF HODGEPODGE OF THE
ZONING DESIGNATIONS THAT ARE
THERE.
I THINK THAT THE CURRENT
CLIMATE LAND USE CLIMATE IF YOU
WILL, THE LANDSCAPE
OF DEVELOPMENT THERE IS NO
LONGER SO FRAGMENTED AND
SEGMENTED PEOPLE THINK OF IT AS
ONE PLACE AND QUARTO ZONING.
COURT WIDE REZONING WOULD
PROVIDE FOR A UNIFORM
CONSISTENT DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS.
IT WOULD BE EASIER TO
UNDERSTAND AND EASIER TO
PREDICT FOR DEVELOPERS, LAND
OWNERS, CITY RESIDENTS WOULD
ALSO HELP LEVEL THE PLAYING
FIELD WITH THE SAME
EXPECTATIONS FOR ALL SITES, THE
SAME REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL
DEVELOPMENT RIGHT NOW WITHOUT
REZONING EACH DISTRICT HAS ITS
OWN LITTLE TWIST ON THINGS
WHETHER IT BE PERMITTED USES
SETBACKS, NEW SPECIFIC
STANDARDS AND WHATNOT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WOULD LEVEL THE
PLAYING FIELD AND CREATE A
COHESIVE CAWDOR OR MOVE TOWARD
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL SPEAK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE DC ONE DISTRICT ITS
HISTORY INTENT PERMIT.
IT USES A STANDARD TERM FOR
THESE PROPERTIES WE ARE
PROPOSING TO REZONE IN NOVEMBER
2020 THE CITY COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION TO CREATE A NEW
ZONING DISTRICT AND
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR REZONING IN
APRIL OF TWENTY ONE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDED
CREATING THE TCE ONE DISTRICT
THAT WORK THAT WAS ASKED FOR
WAS CARRIED OUT.
A DISTRICT WAS DRAFTED.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF IT AND
RECOMMENDED SOME CITY INITIATED
REZONING TO FOLLOW IN JUNE
OF TWENTY ONE CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED ORDINANCE TWENTY ONE
NINETEEN TO CREATE THE DISTRICT
AND ADD IT UDC IN FEBRUARY
OF TWENTY TWO PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
OF A CITY INITIATED REZONING IN
THE SOUTH STATE AND EAST AND
WEST EISENHAUER AREA TO TAKE
ONE WHICH WAS APPROVED BY
COUNCIL IN APRIL 22 AND
SLIGHTLY BEFORE THEN WE STARTED
AND THEN CONTINUING AFTERWARDS
IN JUNE OF THIS YEAR WE HAD
INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS ABOUT
THIS PARTICULAR CITY INITIATED
REZONING IN THE WEST STADIUM
MAPLE RANGE AND THEN TONIGHT
AUGUST WE ARE HAVING A PUBLIC
HEARING AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THE INTENT OF THE DC
ONE DISTRICT IS TO BE LOCATED
ALONG EXISTING TRANSIT
CORRIDORS WITH REGULAR SERVICE
PRIMARILY ON ESTABLISHED
COMMERCIAL AND MIXED USE SITES.
THE DISTRICT WAS CREATED TO
FACILITATE, ENCOURAGE AND
SUPPORT REDEVELOPMENT AT INFILL
.
IT IS ACKNOWLEDGING AND NOT
PENALIZING ANY EXISTING
DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; WE WOULD SIMPLY LIKE MORE
HOPEFULLY HOUSING BECAUSE THIS
WILL HELP DEVELOPMENTS ACHIEVE
MIXED-USE AND ENCOURAGE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, MORE
HOUSING CHOICES, MORE
SUSTAINABLE FORMS
OF DEVELOPMENT WITH REDUCED
RESOURCE AND ENERGY NEEDS.
&gt;&gt; PROVIDING BUSSES IN THE DC
ONE DISTRICT INCLUDE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL OFFICE
,THE MAJOR CHIM&apos;S GENERAL
MEDICAL CENTER AND FINANCIAL
COUNSELING SERVICES ARE ALSO
PERMITTED SUCH AS HOTELS,
PERSONAL SERVICES, ANY TYPE
OF GENERAL RETAIL RESTAURANTS
BARRED FROM SERVICE.
WHAT IS NOT PERMITTED ARE AUTO
ORIENTED USES LIKE AUTO SALES
OR WE CALL THEM IN THE UDC
FUELING STATIONS OR VEHICLE
WASHES ARE NOT PERMITTED BUT
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
LABORATORY TECHNICAL
DEVELOPMENT TESTING SUPPORT A
VERY LIGHT INDUSTRIAL IS
PERMITTED IN THE DC ONE
DISTRICT THE STANDARDS IN THE
DC ONE DISTRICT THERE ARE YOU
SPECIFIC STANDARDS AND THEY
ADDRESS BUILDINGS BOTH FOR
MIXED USE BUILDINGS.
THERE ARE STANDARDS AND
RESIDENTIAL THERE ARE MIXED USE
BUILDINGS, FRONTAGE STANDARDS
AS WELL AS RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
STANDARDS.
THERE ARE SITE STANDARDS,
ACCESS AND CIRCULATION PARKING
NUMBERS AND PARKING LOTS AS A
SIDE NOTE THE PARKING NUMBERS
ACTUALLY WAS AMENDED LAST NIGHT
AS PART OF THE AMENDMENTS ON
ALL PARKING NO REQUIREMENTS AND
THERE ARE DIFFERENT STANDARDS
DEPENDING ON IF THE SITE IS
MORE THAN OR LESS THAN TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOR EXAMPLE,
THE BUILDING STANDARDS ARE
MAXIMUM DIAGONALS, FIRST FLOOR
HEIGHT TRANSPARENCY
REQUIREMENTS EXAMPLES
OF BUILDING FOR INSTANCE
REQUIREMENTS ARE THE BUILDING
MUST SPAN THE WIDTH OF THE LOT
AND WE&apos;D LIKE BUILDINGS UP ON
THE STREET GOING FROM SIDE
OUTLINE TO SIDE NOT LYING TO
CREATE THAT PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
STREET WALL STREET STANDARDS
TALK ABOUT BREAKING DOWN
BUILDINGS INTO SMALLER PIECES
AND HAVING WALKWAYS AND
CONNECTIVITY BETWEEN THEM.
THE SECOND DISTRICT NOW LIKE
ALL LAND USES HAS NO MINIMUM
PARKING REQUIREMENT BUT THERE
ARE MAXIMUM PARKING NUMBERS AND
MAXIMUM PARKING AREA SIZES
BETWEEN THE TWO PARKING
CATEGORIES THOSE ARE ADDRESSED
THERE ALSO THE SORT OF TYPICAL
NORMAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
OF THE U.S. ONE DISTRICT THERE
IS NO MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM FLOOR
AREA RATIO AND THAT IS
SPECIFICALLY SO THAT NO
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT IS
PENALIZED.
YOU CAN WORK AROUND EXISTING
BUILDINGS AND EITHER ADD THE
SECOND FLOOR OR MANY SECOND
MANY FLOORS OR ADD MORE
BUILDINGS IN FRONT OF THE
EXISTING BUILDINGS.
THE CONCEPT IS ZERO IN THE
DISTRICT SITE IN SETBACKS FIFTY
FEET FOR MIXED USE BUILDINGS OR
TWENTY FEET FOUR THERE&apos;S AN
ERROR IN THE CHART HERE.
I&apos;M SAYING THAT IS THE MAXIMUM
SET BACK.
THE MAXIMUM SET BACK IS FIFTEEN
FEET FOR MIXED USE BUILDINGS
FOR TWENTY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS.
THE SIDING WHERE SETBACKS ARE
ZERO ARE A LOT MORE TO SEE ONE
BUT THEY ARE THIRTY FEET IF YOU
ARE ABOUT SOMETHING OTHER SAY A
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ANY SIZE
WHAT DIMENSION IS ACCEPTABLE
SMALL BLOCKS LARGE LOFTS.
THE MALL IS TWO STORIES AND A
MAXIMUM HEIGHT IS VARIABLE
EITHER.
FIFTY FIVE FEET SEVENTY FIVE
FEET.
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY OR THREE
HUNDRED FEET DEPENDING ON YOUR
DISTANCE AWAY FROM RESIDENTIAL
ZONING WHEN YOU ARE BETWEEN
WHEN YOU ARE BETWEEN ZERO AND
80 FEET AND THIS WOULD BE FOR
THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
ANY BUILDINGS THAT ARE WITHIN
80 FEET OF RESIDENTIAL ZONING
CAN BE NO MORE THAN FIFTY FIVE
FEET TALL WHEN A BUILDING IS
BETWEEN 80 AND 300 FEET IT CAN
BE SEVENTY FIVE FEET TALL OR
THAT PORTION OF IT WHEN A
BUILDING IS MORE THAN THREE
HUNDRED FEET AWAY FROM
RESIDENTIAL ZONING IT CAN BE
120 FEET AND WHEN A BUILDING IS
MORE THAN A THOUSAND FEET FROM
RESIDENTIAL ZONING IT CAN BE UP
TO THREE HUNDRED FEET.
I SHOULD NOTE THAT THERE IS
VERY LITTLE AREA IN THIS
PROPOSED REZONING AREA THAT CAN
BE 300 FEET.
THE ONLY SPOT IS REALLY LOCATED
NEAR THE JACKSON 894 EXIT AND
ON RAMPS.
THAT&apos;S REALLY THE ONLY SPOT
THAT&apos;S MORE THAN A THOUSAND
FEET FROM RESIDENTIAL.
SO FOR THE MOST PART THIS
PROPOSED DISTRICT IS IN THE
FIFTY FIVE SEVENTY FIVE ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET
OF MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESIDEN
NOTATION ON THE TEENS IN ONE
DISTRICT BUT I WANTED TO BE
BRIEF BECAUSE I HAVE A FEELING
THEY&apos;LL BE A LOT OF QUESTIONS
THAT I AM MORE THAN HAPPY TO
ANSWER.
I WILL STOP THIS RIGHT NOW AND
WE CAN MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING UNLESS THERE ARE ANY
IMMEDIATE QUESTION.
MR. LEONARD ALEXIS, CAN YOU
TRUST YOU TOUCHED ON IT?
WHAT HAPPENS WITH EXISTING
BUSINESSES IN THE LOCATION?
I THINK PREVIOUSLY WE TALKED
ABOUT YOU TALKED ABOUT THEY CAN
BE WORKED AROUND.
CAN YOU JUST CLARIFY IT?
DOES THIS REQUIRE BUSINESSES TO
CLOSE OR LEAVE CHIP, WE DID
ADDRESS THIS IN SOME OF OUR
INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS AND SO
WE WILL BE CREATING SOME
NONCONFORMIST WITH REZONING.
THERE ARE THREE KINDS
OF NONCONFORMITY.
THERE IS A NONCONFORMING LOT
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE AND A
NONCONFORMING USE.
WE WILL NOT BE CREATING ANY
NONCONFORMING LOCKS BECAUSE THE
MINIMUM LOCK SIZE IS ZERO.
SO EVERYTHING QUALIFIES.
WE MAY BE CREATING SOME
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND
THE DEFINITION OF THAT IS IF
THE STRUCTURE DOESN&apos;T MEET THE
SET BACK OR THE HEIGHT
REQUIREMENT.
SO UPON ZONING A ONE STOREY
BUILDING WOULD BE NONCONFORMING
AND A BUILDING THAT IS PERHAPS
TOO FAR BACK WOULD BE
NONCONFORMING BUILDING AND A
THIRD KIND OF NONCONFORMITY IS
NOT CONFORMING USE.
WE ALSO WILL BE CREATING SOME
NONCONFORMING USES OF THE TOP
OF MY HEAD GAS STATIONS OR
OFFICIALLY CALLED FUELING
STATIONS WOULD BECOME
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE THEY ARE
NOT PERMITTED USE IN THE U.S.
DISTRICT.
THERE&apos;S AN ENTIRE SECTION
OF THE UDC THAT IS DEVOTED TO
NONCONFORMING YOUTH AND WHAT TO
DO ABOUT THEM.
THEY MAINTAIN INDEFINITELY IN
THE CITY THEY AND THEY CAN
PERFECTLY REMAIN INDEFINITE.
THE CITY DOES NOT DO ANYTHING.
WE DO NOT FORCE THE CLOSURE
OF THEM OR FORCE ANY CHANGES
BUT COMPLIANCE IS REQUIRED WHEN
SITE PLAN APPROVAL IS AN
APPROVAL, THE BIG TRIGGER IS
ADDING FLOOR AREA.
SO YOU NEED A SITE PLAN IF YOU
WANT TO ADD A SECOND STORY OR
MORE OR ADD A NEW BUILDING OR A
BUILDING ADDITION SO PROPERTIES
THAT YOU CAN STILL INTERNALLY
REMODEL OR COSMETIC CHANGES
CHANGE THE COLOR, CHANGE THE
MATERIALS AND THE OUTSIDE EVEN
THE BUILDING YOU CAN COMBINE
TENANT SPACES OR SUBDIVIDE
TENANT SPACES BUT IT&apos;S THE
FLOOR AREA THAT IS THE TRIGGER
AND COMPLIANCE IS REQUIRED WHEN
A SITE PLAN IS SUBMITTED IT
ALSO IS REQUIRED.
THERE&apos;S A NUANCE TO THAT.
IT&apos;S THE PART THAT&apos;S BEING
TOUCHED IF YOU HAVE TWO
BUILDINGS ON A SITE AND YOU&apos;RE
PUTTING AN ADDITION ON ONE, THE
ADDITION MUST COMPLY ON AN
EXISTING BUILDING.
BUT IF THE SECOND BUILDING IS
NOT BEING TOUCHED IT CAN BEGIN
AGAIN, REMAIN A NONCONFORMING
USE.
I MET A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
OK THEN LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING THEN WE&apos;LL HAVE
DISCUSSION AFTER.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP FOR THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE TAXI ONE
ZONING ON STADIUM.
WELL FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO SPEAK IN FRONT
OF THE COMMISSION AND THEN
REMOTE TO SPEAK DURING THIS
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE TO RAISE HAND FEATURE IF
YOU SAID THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING I&apos;D
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HANDS IN THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE USING FOR ACCESSING
THE WEB LINK.
WELL HERE I MADE AN
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SILENCE SO THAT WE
MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND YOU
SHOULD PRESS STAR SIX TO
UNMUTED YOURSELF FOR EITHER
METHOD METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT HERE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THIS?
&gt;&gt; LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF PEOPLE YOU CAN.
I&apos;M SUSAN DAVIS AND I LIVE IN
THE AREA OF THE STADIUM AND
PAULINE, SO THE PEOPLE IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD ARE CONFUSED BY
THE WHOLE THING.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL BE PERFECTLY HONEST.
I THINK THEY ARE WORRIED ABOUT
PARKING AND I THINK MOST OF US
DON&apos;T TRULY UNDERSTAND WHAT
MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS
ARE AND FRANKLY WE&apos;RE AFRAID
THAT THERE ARE GOING THESE
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO HAVE CARS
LIVING THERE AND WHERE ARE THEY
GOING TO PARK THEM AND IT WOULD
BE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND
THAT IS A HUGE CONCERN FOR US.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND IF I UNDERSTAND THE
THE EXISTING BUILDINGS, THEY
CAN STAY AS THEY ARE UNLESS
THEY WANT TO MAKE SOME KIND
OF AN ADDITION THEN THEY HAVE
TO COMPLY.
THAT WAS A CONFUSION FOR ALL
OF US ALSO I THINK THE
TRANSPARENCY SEEMS TO BE A BIT
LACKING FOR THOSE OF US LIVING
CLOSE TO US.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS ELLEN GAVAGE.
I LIVE ON THALER&apos;S STREET WHICH
IS JUST ONE BLOCK OFF LIBERTY
AND IN THIS AREA ONE OF THE
MAJOR ISSUES WHICH WAS SPOKEN
OF IN THE PRECEDING PLATTE ROAD
THING WAS THE AVAILABILITY
OF HOUSING UNITS AND THIS IS A
VERY GOOD THING AND I AM NOT
AGAINST IT.
BUT I THINK THAT THE CITY IS
SERIOUSLY MISSING AN
OPPORTUNITY IN THAT THERE IS
NOTHING IN THIS DC ONE ZONING
THAT REQUIRES THAT PEOPLE WHO
ARE BUILDING COMPLY WITH THINGS
WHICH THE CITY SAYS ARE THEIR
MAJOR TOP PRIORITIES.
THERE IS NOT ONE WORD ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SUSTAINABLE HOUSING EVEN THOUGH
THERE IS NOT ONE WORD ABOUT
I PRESENT HER MENTIONED
SUSTAINABLE HOUSING EVEN THOUGH
SUSTAINABLE HOUSING THE I THINK
I PRESENT HER MENTIONED
THAT IT&apos;S TRAGIC WHEN WE ARE
SUSTAINABLE HOUSING THE I THINK
TRYING TO DO THESE THINGS TO
THAT IT&apos;S TRAGIC WHEN WE ARE
APPROVE A WHOLE NEW ZONING
TRYING TO DO THESE THINGS TO
SECTION AND THEN LET BUILDERS
APPROVE A WHOLE NEW ZONING
BUILD LUXURY CONDOS THAT ARE
SECTION AND THEN LET BUILDERS
NOT SUSTAINABLE OR AFFORDABLE.
BUILD LUXURY CONDOS THAT ARE
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
NOT SUSTAINABLE OR AFFORDABLE.
THANK YOU
.
MY NAME IS JOHN BIRCH.
I LIVE IN BURWOOD AVENUE JUST
OUTSIDE OF THIS PROPOSED AREA
I&apos;VE LIVED ON THE WEST SIDE
OF ANN ARBOR SINCE NINETEEN
SEVENTY SEVEN IN TWO DIFFERENT
AREAS THAT WOULD BE IMPACTED
DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO THIS THIS
PROPOSED ZONING.
I HAVE SEVERAL THINGS THAT I&apos;M
CONCERNED ABOUT.
FIRST IS OVER THE PAST 20 TO 30
YEARS STADIUM HAS BECOME A MUCH
MORE ENJOYABLE PLACE TO WALK
BACK AND FORTH AND I DO WALK ON
STADIUM QUITE A BIT AND I SAY
THAT&apos;S PRIMARILY BECAUSE OF THE
LARGE SETBACKS REQUIRED FROM
THE CITY WHICH GREEN SPACE AND
AND I THINK THAT GREEN SPACE IS
AN IMPORTANT THING AND
IMPORTANT ELEMENT IF YOU WANT
TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO MOVE
BACK AND FORTH WHETHER BY BIKE
OR WALKING OR WHATEVER TO
REQUIRE A ZERO SET BACK ON A
TWO STOREY BUILDING ESSENTIALLY
ELIMINATE GREEN SPACE AND EVEN
IF YOU HAVE A SMALL AREA WHERE
THEY TRY AND PLANT TREES, IT
DOESN&apos;T SUCCEED.
JUST LOOK AT THE COLDWELL
COLDWELL BANKER BUILDING THAT
WAS RECENTLY BUILT.
THEY PLANTED FOUR NEW TREES AND
TO A MAJORITY ALMOST DID YOU
DON&apos;T HAVE ENOUGH AREA FOR THE
TREE TO GROW.
SO THAT&apos;S REALLY MY MAJOR
CONCERN IS THAT THE OTHER
CONCERN IS THAT YOU&apos;RE NOT
ALLOWED TO HAVE A SETBACK IF
YOU WANT ONE YOU MUST BE
ACCORDED THIS RIGHT UP ON THE
FRONT AND I THINK THAT WILL
DISCOURAGE THAT TO BE A
PLEASANT AREA FOR PEOPLE TO
WALK OR BIKE AND WILL MAKE IT A
AN UNPLEASANT AREA AND I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE SOME CONSIDERATION
MADE FOR THAT.
THANK YOU.
I TOTALLY MY NAME IS JANET JUST
A SWIGER.
I LIVE ON SALER VERY CLOSE TO
THE DC ONE AREA I HAVE A COUPLE
OF CONCERNS.
ONE IS I&apos;M I&apos;M VERY IN FAVOR
OF THE CITY ADDING MORE HOUSING
ESPECIALLY MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND I SEE NO
REQUIREMENT IN THIS THAT ANY
OF THESE DEVELOPERS NEED TO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
IT SEEMS TO ME THE DEVELOPERS
CAN PROVIDE WHATEVER THEY WANT
AND IF YOU&apos;RE A DEVELOPER AND A
GOOD BUSINESS MAN THAT PROBABLY
MEANS PROVIDING THINGS THAT
WILL BRING IN A LOT OF INCOME
AND THAT&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
BUT I I AM VERY DISTURBED BY
THE THOUGHT OF PEOPLE WHO
ALREADY HAVE HOMES BEING TAXED
OR OTHERWISE PENALIZED FOR
HAVING GAS APPLIANCES WHEN
THERE IS NO NO REQUIREMENT IN
THE ONE COURT OR FOR NEW PLACES
TO HAVE ELECTRIC AS OPPOSED TO
GAS.
I SEE NO NOTHING IN THERE THAT
SAYS THERE WON&apos;T BE ANY GAS TO
THESE BUILDINGS.
SO I JUST FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S A
BLESSING FOR THE DEVELOPERS AND
NOT SO MUCH A BLESSING FOR THE
PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR.
I ALSO AGREE THAT NO GREEN
SPACE TO WALK BY BY THESE
VARIOUS BUILDINGS IS A DEFINITE
DISCOURAGEMENT FOR PEOPLE
WALKING.
I USED TO LIVE IN NEW YORK CITY
AND I CAN TELL YOU IT WAS NOT
VERY PLEASANT WALKING PLACES
WHEN THERE WAS NOTHING BUT
SIDEWALK AND BUILDING.
I THINK WE NEED IF WE&apos;RE GOING
TO BE THE TREE CITY I THINK WE
NEED SOME GREEN SPACE IN THERE.
WE NEED A WAY FOR PEOPLE TO
REALLY WANT TO WALK IN THERE.
WANT TO GO IN TO THIS AREA TO
WE NEED A WAY FOR PEOPLE TO
WALK FROM STORE TO STORE AND
WANT TO GO IN TO THIS AREA TO
SHOP AND DO THOSE THINGS.
WALK FROM STORE TO STORE AND
I THINK WE&apos;RE NOT PROVIDING
SHOP AND DO THOSE THINGS.
THAT BUT I THINK IT&apos;S NOT IN
I THINK WE&apos;RE NOT PROVIDING
ALIGNMENT WITH THE WHOLE SPIRIT
THAT BUT I THINK IT&apos;S NOT IN
OF ANN ARBOR IN THE DIRECTION
ALIGNMENT WITH THE WHOLE SPIRIT
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO GO.
OF ANN ARBOR IN THE DIRECTION
I ALSO THINK SOME MODERATION IN
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO GO.
HOW CLOSE TO THE HOMES SOME
I ALSO THINK SOME MODERATION IN
OF THESE SEVENTY FIVE ONE
HOW CLOSE TO THE HOMES SOME
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOOT
OF THESE SEVENTY FIVE ONE
BUILDINGS CAN BE I THINK WHEN
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOOT
YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT THE WEST
BUILDINGS CAN BE I THINK WHEN
SIDE YOU PROBABLY WANT A LITTLE
YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT THE WEST
DIFFERENT VIEW OF THINGS THAN
SIDE YOU PROBABLY WANT A LITTLE
YOU DO WHEN YOU&apos;RE TALKING
DIFFERENT VIEW OF THINGS THAN
ABOUT THE BRIARWOOD CORRIDOR.
YOU DO WHEN YOU&apos;RE TALKING
I THINK WE NEED TO RETHINK HOW
ABOUT THE BRIARWOOD CORRIDOR.
MUCH SPACE WE NEED FOR THAT&apos;S
I THINK WE NEED TO RETHINK HOW
LIMITED TO FOUR STORY BUILDINGS
MUCH SPACE WE NEED FOR THAT&apos;S
AND HOW MUCH SPACE WE NEED
LIMITED TO FOUR STORY BUILDINGS
LIMITED TO SEVENTY FIVE FOOT
AND HOW MUCH SPACE WE NEED
BUILDINGS AND ONE HUNDRED AND
LIMITED TO SEVENTY FIVE FOOT
TWENTY FOOT BUILDINGS AND THREE
BUILDINGS AND ONE HUNDRED AND
HUNDRED FOOT BUILDINGS.
TWENTY FOOT BUILDINGS AND THREE
THE QUESTION IS DOES THAT FIT
HUNDRED FOOT BUILDINGS.
IN WHERE THEY WERE ONCE FOR
THE QUESTION IS DOES THAT FIT
THIS WEST SIDE AREA?
IN WHERE THEY WERE ONCE FOR
&gt;&gt; THANK
HEY, I&apos;M ALEX.
I LIVE IN WARD THREE.
HOWEVER I USED TO LIVE RIGHT
NEAR THIS AREA AND I BET MY
EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN THAT THE
SORT OF THING THAT THAT&apos;S BEING
DESCRIBED HERE WOULD HAVE MADE
MY LIFE SO MUCH BETTER.
&gt;&gt; I USED TO HAVE TO TAKE THE
BUS TO GET TO GET TO THE KROGER
THERE I WOULD STOP AT THE BUS
STOP ON JACKSON ROAD THEN I&apos;D
HAVE TO WALK AGES ACROSS THIS
GIANT EMPTY PARKING LOT
TO GET
TO THE KROGER AND THAT I&apos;D BUY
MY WEEKS
WITH GROCERIES TURN
AROUND AND I WOULD SPEND AS
MUCH TIME WALKING ACROSS THIS
GIANT EMPTY PARKING LOT WITH
THE SUN BEATING ME WITH THE
HEAT COMING UP FROM THE TARMAC
AS I SPENT ON THE BUS GETTING
UP.
THIS IS REALLY THIS IS
RIDICULOUS.
IF THIS HAD BEEN AN AREA MORE
LIKE DOWNTOWN WITH THESE
BEAUTIFUL TREES THAT WE&apos;VE
GOTTEN ON MAIN STREET, THIS IS
THE GOOGLE STREET VIEW OF MAIN
STREET.
&gt;&gt; THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN A MUCH,
MUCH BETTER PLACE, ESPECIALLY
WITH WHAT WE&apos;VE GOT GOING ON AT
THAT TIME OUR WEEKENDS.
SO MASSIVELY IT&apos;S PART OF WHAT
I UNDERSTAND CONCERNS ABOUT
AFFORDABILITY.
I WILL POINT OUT THAT MIGRATION
CHAINS WILL WILL MAKE MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AVAILABLE
PEOPLE WHO WHO WANT TO LIVE IN
THESE AREAS WILL LIVE IT WILL
LIVE IN THESE AREAS.
THEY WILL HAVE MORE THAN THEY
WILL HAVE THE TYPES OF LIFE
THAT THEY WANT.
I LIVE HERE FOR FREE WHEN I
LIVED ON THE WEST SIDE OF TOWN
I STILL HAVE I STILL HAVE TO
PAY FOR THE PARKING SPOT THAT
THAT WAS AT MY APARTMENT
WHETHER I USED IT OR NOT.
SO THIS ONE WILL ALLOW PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO LIVE A CAR FREE TO
DO SO, FREEING UP SPACES THAT
HAVE PARKING SPOTS FOR PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO DRIVE THIS OTHER
DEVELOPMENT ARE ALSO NATURALLY
MORE SUSTAINABLE THAN WHAT
THEY&apos;RE WHAT&apos;S CURRENTLY THERE.
LARGER BUILDINGS WITH FEWER
OUTSIDE WALLS ARE MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT ESPECIALLY THAN
SINGLE FAMILY HOME BUT ALSO
THEN THE TYPES OF BIG BOX
STORES THAT WE&apos;VE GOT I THINK
THIS IS REALLY GREAT AND
OBVIOUSLY THE ONLY COMPLAINT
ABOUT THIS ONE IS THAT WE&apos;RE
TAKING SO LONG TO DO ALL
OF THIS.
THAT&apos;S WHAT THE WHOLE OF PLEASE
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, RALPH MCKIE 11 16
RED OAK FIFTH WARD.
I SENT YOU A LONG EMAIL TODAY
WHICH IS REALLY DIRECTED AS
MUCH AS THE PUBLIC IS TO YOU
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T THINK BASED ON
WHAT HAPPENED WITH THE
BRIARWOOD REZONING AND WHAT
HAPPENED WITH YOUR ORDINANCE
REVIEW COMMISSION OR COMMITTEE
RATHER ESSENTIALLY REJECTING
ALL THE PUBLIC FEEDBACK THAT
WASN&apos;T ALIGNED WITH HOW YOU
WANT TO DO THIS.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT ANY OF THE
CONCERNS THAT HAVE BEEN RAISED
TONIGHT WILL BE UNFORTUNATELY
TAKEN SERIOUSLY AND THAT&apos;S
UNFORTUNATE.
THE I CAN&apos;T COVER THE STUFF
THAT I COVERED IN THE EMAIL
BECAUSE IT WOULD TAKE WAY TOO
LONG.
I&apos;LL TRY TO MAKE ONE POINT AND
THAT IS THAT THERE IS THIS
FANTASY OF A MAGIC ELIXIR THAT
WILL TURN THIS ALL INTO A NICE
20 MINUTE WALKABLE MIXED USE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE
UNFORTUNATE REALITY IS THAT
THERE ARE UNLIKE BRIARWOOD,
THERE&apos;S NO VACANT PARCELS HERE
.
THERE&apos;S A FEW BIG PARKING LOTS
BUT THEY&apos;RE OCCUPIED BY
BUSINESSES.
THERE&apos;S A COUPLE OF PARCELS.
THERE&apos;S THE OLD BARNS ACE
HARDWARE AND THERE&apos;S THE NAILER
SITE THAT&apos;S PRETTY MUCH IT.
SO EVERY SINGLE BIG RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING THAT COMES IN HERE IS
GOING TO REPLACE BUSINESSES
PERIOD.
THERE&apos;S NO OTHER WAY TO DO SO.
YOU WILL YOU MAY GET MIXED USE
BY PUTTING RESIDENTIAL BUT AT
THE COST OF ELIMINATING
BUSINESSES THAT JUST A FACT AND
THE YOU MAY NOT LIKE SOME
OF THOSE BUSINESSES BUT SOME
OTHER PEOPLE MIGHT LIKE THEM.
THAT&apos;S A THRIVING COMMERCIAL
AREA WHICH IS ALL BEING
JEOPARDIZED BY THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE NOT REQUIRING
MIXED USE EXCEPT AT THE CORNERS
AND I THINK ANY REAL ESTATE
PROFESSIONAL YOU HAVE SOME ON
YOUR ON YOUR COMMISSION WILL
TELL YOU THAT A RETURN ON
INVESTMENT FOR BIG BUCKS LUXURY
HOUSING IS WAY HIGHER
PERCENTAGE IN ABSOLUTE DOLLARS
THAN MOM AND POP RETAIL MOM AND
POP RETAIL IS STRUGGLING RIGHT
NOW HERE AND EVERYWHERE ELSE.
THIS THIS IS JUST A PERFECT
STORM FOR IT FOR PROPERTY
OWNERS TO SAY GEE, I CAN MAKE A
LOT MORE MONEY IF I SOLD THIS
AND A I&apos;M NOT OPPOSED TO
RESIDENTIAL HERE.
IF YOU COULD FIGURE OUT A WAY
TO REZONE AND GET RESIDENTIAL
INTO THOSE VACANT PARCELS GREAT
DO IT.
BUT OTHER OTHER THAN THAT ALL
THESE LITTLE BUSINESS BECAUSE
IT COULD JUST BE GONE AS THE
PRICE OF DOING THIS THAT&apos;S
ABOUT ALL I HAVE TIME FOR.
I HOPE YOU TAKE THAT SERIOUSLY
.
THANK YOU
YOU SEE THIS IF YOU COULD MOVE
IT A LITTLE BIT OVER SO IT&apos;S
NOT BEHIND THE DYAS THAT WOULD
BE HELPFUL.
THANK YOU.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT SIDE CAN
SEE IT.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MY NAME IS PETER STONE.
I LIVE ON LONDON ON THE EAST
SIDE OF ANN ARBOR AND MAPLE IS
NO LONGER IN MY BACKYARD.
I&apos;M NOT A NIMBY HERE.
IT HASN&apos;T BEEN FOR TWENTY YEARS
AND I&apos;M OKAY WITH SOME FORM
OF TRANSIT CORRIDOR STATUS FOR
MAPLE SENSIBLE STATUS BUT DC
ONE IS NOT IS FOR RECENT.
SEVERAL PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY
MENTIONED IT WAS DESIGNED FOR
STATE STREET.
THE VERY NAME IMPLIES THAT IF
YOU SEE ONE HERE THERE CAN BE A
TAXI TO OVER HERE AND THERE MAY
BE A DC THREE OVER THERE EACH
TAILORED TO THE SPECIFIC
CHARACTERISTICS AND NEEDS
OF THE CORRIDOR DOES TAXI ONE
REALLY MEAN TAXI INFINITI?
A PUBLIC HEARING BROUGHT OUT
MANY RESIDENTS RESIDENTS
CONCERNS.
STAFF WROTE A SENSIBLE REPORT
ON THOSE CONCERNS BUT
APPARENTLY THE ORDINANCE REVIEW
COMMITTEE FOUND NOT A SINGLE
ONE HAD ANY VALIDITY TCE ONE IS
PERFECT PERFECT FOR ALL
SITUATIONS JUST AMAZING THE TWO
SIDES OF PEOPLE ARE VERY
DIFFERENT.
THIS IS THE WEBSITE OF THE
GLOBAL FALL.
THE WEBSITE IS LARGELY
COMMERCIAL, LARGELY SPECIALIZED
RETAIL LIKE CAMERA MALL ARBER
FARM STADIUM HARDWARE, KROGER
THEY NEED ADEQUATE PARKING NOT
ALWAYS AS MUCH AS THEY HAVE BUT
IN MANY CASES YES IN SUCH
DESTINATION SHOPS CANNOT
SURVIVE ON FOOT TRAFFIC ALONE
THE FOOT TRAFFIC RETAIL THAT
WILL REPLACE THEM WILL BE PIZZA
PARLORS AND THE 7-ELEVEN FOR
THE PEOPLE LIVING ON THE NINTH
FLOOR AND COMING DOWN FOR A
BITE TO EAT IT WILL BE A LOSS
FOR ALL OF OUR SHOPPERS.
&gt;&gt; THE EAST SIDE IS COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT.
THERE ARE HUNDREDS OF MODEST
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES WITH VERY
FEW LOW RISE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
MANY RESIDENTS WILL LIVE IN THE
SHADOWS OF THESE TALL BUILDINGS
GARDENS, GRASS AND TREES.
REMEMBER, TREES WILL ALL SUFFER
.
SOLAR PANELS WOULD BE
IMPRACTICAL AT LEAST WE NEED A
TAXI TO A AND T.C. TO BE TO
ADAPT TO LOCAL CONDITIONS NOT A
ONE SIZE FITS ALL APPROACH
DESIGNED FOR A QUARTER WITH
ALMOST NO HOMES.
THE STATE STREET TO APPLY A
COOKIE CUTTER APPROACH THAT
IGNORES LOCAL CONDITIONS AND
NEEDS WOULD BE IN MY VIEW
IRRESPONSIBLE.
PLEASE CONSIDER CONCERNS AND
APPROACH THEM WITH THOUGHT
ENERGY AND RESPECT.
TO DO LESS WOULD BE A
DERELICTION OF DUTY.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE IN THE
ROOM THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
?
HELLO MY NAME IS STEVE AND I
LIVE ON BIRDWOOD AND IN FACT MY
PROPERTY WILL UP AGAINST THIS
NEW CORRIDOR SO I KNOW THAT
CHANGE AND DEVELOPMENT IS
INEVITABLE.
I WANT TO INTERPRET IDENTIFY
BUT I WOULD JUST SAY SIMILAR
OTHER CONCERN TO THE ROOM.
JUST KEEP YOUR PENCIL SHARP
WHEN YOU ARE REVIEWING
PROPOSALS THAT FOLLOW THE
EXISTING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
SO CERTAINLY IS A CONCERN
OF OURS THAT THERE MIGHT BE A
FOUR STORY BUILDING BEHIND US
IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
SO JUST LET&apos;S MAKE SURE IT FITS
.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM?
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY WAITING MIND
YOU, KATHY ANTONAKIS, YOU CAN
ADJUST THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
.
YES, I LIVE IN WHARFIE AND I&apos;M
OPPOSED TO THE DC ONE UP ZONING
OF STADIUM APRIL CARTER.
I THINK THAT MANY OF THE
OBJECTIVES OF DC ONE ZONING ARE
ALREADY MET
IN THE AREA.
THERE IS A MIX OF HOUSING TYPES
INCLUDE APARTMENTS AND
CONDOMINIUMS AS WELL AS SMALLER
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES IN VERY
NICE NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS WITH MANY DIFFERENT TYPES
OF SMALL AND LOCALLY OWNED
BUSINESSES.
THE WONK&apos;S FOUR IS IN THE HIGH
EIGHTIES ON STADIUM PART
INDICATING THAT IT IS A VERY
WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WHEN I GO TO STARTING TO SHOP I
SEE PEOPLE WALKING, I SEE
PEOPLE EXERCISE IN THERE.
I&apos;VE SEEN WAITING FOR THE BUS
AT TRANSIT STOPS I SEE PEOPLE
RIDING BICYCLES CURRENTLY I
WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN WITH THE RESEARCH
GROUP THAT STUDIES
NEIGHBORHOODS AND HELP AND THIS
AREA IS WHAT EPIDEMIOLOGISTS
LOVE TO SEE.
THE LARGER CITIES ARE DIVERSE.
THERE&apos;S A LARGE PARK, THERE&apos;S A
POOL AND ICE RINK.
THERE ARE SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN
CROSSINGS AND GREEN SPACE.
THE AREA HAS EVOLVED OVER A
LONG PERIOD OF TIME TO BECOME
THE BUSY PLACE IT IS TODAY.
I THINK IS EASY TO DAMAGE A
FRAGILE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AREA LIKE THIS.
IT&apos;S NOT EASY TO SUSTAIN.
I AM CONCERNED THAT SEE ONE
ZONE WOULD DESTROY THE
CHARACTER AND THE LIVELINESS
OF THE AREA.
I SUPPORT THE IDEA
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABILITY BUT HOUSING IS
NOT REQUIRED IN TEACHING ONE
ZONING AND I DON&apos;T THINK THE
PROPOSAL TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE
QUALITY OF LIFE FOR RESIDENTS
IN THE AREA.
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF THERE
ARE LESS EXPENSIVE AND MORE
SENSIBLE WAYS TO SUPPORT
BUSINESSES IMPROVE TRANSIT SUCH
AS FOR PROVIDING BUS SHELTERS
AND BENCHES AND TO BUILD WATER
RETENTION AREAS THERE TO REDUCE
FLOODING DOWNSTREAM.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO JUST PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; HI MY NAME IS ADAM DISCOVERY
CHANNEL AND IN THE THIRD AND
FOURTH QUARTER AND LAS VEGAS
DRIVE I LIVE IN THE NEXT
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS ADJACENT
TO THE SOUTHERN END OF THIS
CORRIDOR AND I FREQUENT MANY
BUSINESSES IN THIS AREA.
I&apos;VE BEEN FOLLOWING DC ONE IN
GENERAL AND WEST STADIUM
SPECIFICALLY FOR MANY MEETINGS
AND LISTENED TO AND GIVEN A LOT
OF PUBLIC COMMENTS ON THIS
TOPIC AND I WON&apos;T REHASH ALL
OF THAT IN DETAIL BUT I WANTED
TO AGAIN REGISTER MY SUPPORT
THIS TIME AT THE FORMER FORMAL
PUBLIC HEARING.
I DO WANT TO DIRECT A FEW
COMMENTS PREVIOUS SPEAKERS
MARKET WE&apos;VE COMMITTED AS A
CITY TO REDUCE VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED AND THAT WILL REQUIRE
MOVING AWAY FROM CARS.
THIS REQUIRES LOW PARKING
DEVELOPMENTS, THE STREETS
OF PUBLIC SPACES AND IF WE WANT
TO PROVIDE FREE STREET PARKING
THAT IS NECESSARILY OPEN TO
EVERYONE I WOULD PREFER PEOPLE
WALK, RIDE THEIR BIKES OR TAKE
PUBLIC TRANSIT SUSTAINABILITY
AND AFFORDABILITY.
NOT SURE WE CAN DO THIS IN OUR
ZONING.
THERE&apos;S PROBABLY WAYS WE CAN
HAVE ADDITIONAL INCENTIVES FOR
PREMIUMS TO DEAL WITH THIS KIND
OF THING BUT FORTUNATELY WE
HAVE THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLICH WHICH REDIRECTS TAX
REVENUE TO BUILDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND I AM LOOKING
FORWARD TO SEEING THE CITY
BUILD MORE THOSE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS GREEN
SPACE WALKABILITY MEANS WHAT
YOU CALL STICKY EDGES.
THESE ARE STREET LEVEL USES
THAT PUT PEOPLE IN SUCH AS
STOREFRONTS, CAFES, SIDEWALK
SIDEWALK DINING, THAT KIND
OF THING.
THIS IS THE VERY DEFINITION
OF NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER
LIVELINESS AND I REALLY LOVE TO
SEE THAT KIND OF THING IN THIS
AREA.
THE IDEA THAT THIS IS A COOKIE
CUTTER APPROACH THAT&apos;S DESIGNED
FOR STATE STREET ONE SIZE FITS
ALL I WATCHED A BUNCH OF THE
MEETINGS THAT DEFINED DC ONE
ITSELF.
IT WAS VERY CLEAR TO ME THAT
THE INTENT OF DC ONE IS THAT
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE APPLIED TO
MANY CORRIDORS.
IN FACT W STADIUM IS BROUGHT UP
AS AN EXAMPLE WHERE IT COULD BE
APPLIED DURING THE DISCUSSIONS
TO CREATE AND THE ZONING IS
DESIGNED TO BE FLEXIBLE FOR ALL
OF THESE CORRIDORS AND FINALLY
EXISTING BUSINESSES.
I LOVE THE EXISTING BUSINESSES
FOR ONE YEAR I GO A STADIUM, I
GO TO OUR FARMS ALL THE TIME.
IN FACT I JUST FINISHED A PIECE
OF SALMON THAT I BOUGHT FROM
OUR FARMS IN ALL THE OTHER
BUSINESSES UP AND DOWN THERE.
I LOVE THEM AND I YOU KNOW, I I
THINK THAT HAVING MORE HOUSING
IN THE AREA IS REALLY GOING TO
SUPPORT THOSE BUSINESSES AND
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF ROOM BETWEEN
THE BUSINESSES PARKING ONCE IN
FRONT OF AND BETWEEN THEM
THEY&apos;VE GOT REALLY ACCESS 30
MORE SECONDS.
ALL RIGHT.
LOTS OF INFO BEFORE ANY OF THE
EXISTING BUILDINGS NEED TO BE
REDEVELOPED.
I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE THIS HAPPEN
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE MORE
NEIGHBORS, MORE PEDESTRIANS AND
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
AND AN EXCITED TO SEE MOVEMENT
AN ACTIVE STICKIED STREET.
WELL, AS PROPERTIES GET
REDEVELOPED, THE SUPPORT SO
MUCH OF WHAT WE&apos;RE TRYING TO DO
IN ANN ARBOR I STRONGLY SUPPORT
THIS REZONING AND I DO NOT SEE
A NEED TO ADJUST IT IN ANY WAY
AFTER SO MUCH DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE PASS IT AS IT IS.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; CALL THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH THREE, FOUR OR FIVE
BRUSSTAR SIX TO ME YOUR PHONE
AND ADJUST THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
HELLO KITTY.
CAN I LEAVE A MESSAGE FOR I
REALLY AGREE WITH A LOT
OF SPEAKERS BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
BUT I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING AND IT&apos;S NOT TO
MENTION CONCERN FOR PEOPLE THAT
DEPEND ON HANDICAPPED PARKING
SPACES WONDERING IF BOTH PEOPLE
WORKING AT ALL BEFORE YOU GET
YOUR WAY WITH MINIMUM PARKING
AND WHAT ARE THEY SUPPOSED TO
DO?
IT&apos;S HANDICAPPED PARKING.
THEY&apos;RE ALL GOING TO BE
REQUIRED TO KEEP THE ZONING AND
INSPECTED ALL THE OTHER WORDS
YOU HAVE NOW DECIDED TO DO AWAY
WITH MINIMUM PARKING FOR A LOT
MORE THAN I COULD SAY ABOUT THE
ZONING.
THIS AREA IS VERY DIFFERENT
THAN THE URBAN AREA AND I AGREE
WITH THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER WHO
SAID THERE SHOULD BE THE HOME
HE SAID TO ABC TV I&apos;M SAYING
IT&apos;S NOT THE SAME AND I HOPE
YOU ARE REALLY LET ME AND
CONSIDERING WHAT PEOPLE ARE
SAYING AND WHAT WAS ALSO SAID
AT PREVIOUS PUBLIC HEARINGS,
PUBLIC MEETING, I REALLY HOPE
THIS ISN&apos;T JUST FOR THEM
BECAUSE YOU ARE REQUIRED TO
HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING.
&gt;&gt; I HOPE THAT YOU SERIOUSLY
CONSIDER THAT OUR STATEMENT
MADE BY THE PEOPLE WHO WILL BE
AFFECTED BY THE ZONING PLEASE
PLEASE CONSIDER ALL RESIDENTS
AND NOT ALWAYS THE DEVELOPER.
IT SEEMS LIKE EVERYTHING GETS
TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR
DEVELOPERS.
BUT PLEASE CONSIDER THE PEOPLE
WHO ALREADY LIVE HERE THE
TAXPAYERS, PEOPLE, RESIDENTS
WHO HAVE LIVED IN THIS AREA AND
IN THE REST OF OUR CITY FOR A
LONG, LONG TIME.
THEY SEEM TO BE FORGOTTEN ALL
TOO OFTEN YOU THANK YOU
CALLER
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AND WAS
SIX FIVE FOUR YOU CAN PRESS
STAR SIX TELL ME YOU FIND JUST
THE CONNECTION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN RIDLEY.
I LIVE AND WORK TO 5.5 PERCENT
PLEASE I HEAR THE ENERGY
COMMISSION I DON&apos;T APPRECIATE
MOST OF THE PREVIOUS SPEAKERS
COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO GENERALLY SUPPORT
PROPOSED REZONING OF ONE
HUNDRED NINETY PEOPLE IN THE
STADIUM AND MAPLE ROAD AREA TO
SEE ONE MR. MILOSEVIC THE
CONGRESSMAN WITH REASONING
BEHIND IN REPORTING FOR
TONIGHT&apos;S MEETING IS IMPRESSIVE
AND COMPELLING GIVEN THE
HOUSING, TRANSPORTATION AND
CLIMATE CRISES THE CITY AND THE
NATION FACE THAT NONE OF THOSE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS DIRECTLY
ADDRESS SUSTAINABLE
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICALLY
IMPROVED BUILDING PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS OVER AND ABOVE THOSE
DEFINED IN STATE BUILDING AND
ENERGY.
IT WOULD BE A HUGE MISTAKE NOT
TO MODIFY ONE ZONING AND OR THE
ASSOCIATED APPROVAL AND
PERMITTING PROCESSES TO PROMOTE
NOT REQUIRE BUT PROMOTE
CONSTRUCTION CONSISTENT WITH
THE TWO CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN.
IN OTHER WORDS, ALL BUILDING
WITH WELL INSULATED AND SEALED
ENVELOPE LOW
CARBON CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL,
ENERGY EFFICIENT APPLIANCES AND
ONSITE RENEWABLE ENERGY
GENERATION.
THE CONVENTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
GO UP ON MANY OF THESE 190
PARCELS THE CITY WILL NEVER
ACHIEVE THE PLANNED TARGET
OF NET ZERO EMISSIONS BY 2030.
MOREOVER, THE OVERALL
AFFORDABILITY OF THOSE UNITS
INCLUDING UTILITY COSTS WILL BE
SUBOPTIMAL.
IT WE NEED A PARADIGM
PARTICULARLY HERE IN MICHIGAN
THAT CONSTRUCTION CANNOT
AFFORDABLE, ESTHETICALLY
PLEASING AND SUSTAINABLE THAT
HAS BEEN PROVEN WRONG HUNDREDS
OR EVEN THOUSANDS OF TIMES
AROUND THE COUNTRY, ESPECIALLY
IN THE NORTHEAST AND IN THE
WEST COAST
PROVISIONS IN THE
ESSAY IN THE WASTE REDUCTION
ACT WILL MAKE SUSTAINABLE
CONSTRUCTION EVEN MORE
FINANCIAL ATTRACTIVE.
I URGE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AND CITY COUNCIL TO BRAINSTORM
AND THEN WE WILL BE ABLE TO SEE
ONE ZONING EVEN MORE
SUSTAINABLE.
&gt;&gt; FOR EXAMPLE LOWERING THE
BASELINE DENSITY IN OPPONENT IF
ENERGY AND EMBODIED ENERGY
PERFORMANCE ABOVE A GIVEN
THRESHOLD RELATIVE TO CODE IS
MET AND OR ACCELERATE PROJECT
APPROVALS INCLUDING PERMITTING.
I&apos;M SURE THERE ARE OTHER IDEAS
.
WE HAVE ONE CHANCE TO DO THIS
RIGHT ONE AREA HAS ALREADY BEEN
REZONED IF YOU SEE ONE ANOTHER
TO BE CONSIDERED A REZONING
STILL MORE POOR PERFORMING
BUILDING WILL BE ANCHOR THAT
WILL NEED TO BE DRAGGED FOR
DECADES I ANYTHING AT ALL WHILE
EATING UP IT WILL BE MORE
SECOND PROBLEM BUT NECESSARY TO
ENSURE A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE AND
ABOVE CAN AND NEEDS TO PROVIDE
THAT SUSTAINABLE HOUSING IN THE
BROADER SENSE WILL BE AVAILABLE
HERE AND SHOW UPPER MICHIGAN
EXCUSE ME MICHIGAN
MUNICIPALITIES HOW THAT PROCESS
STARTS WITH YOU TONIGHT OTHER
THAN I ARE HERE TO HELP.
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING MY
INPUT AND FOR YOUR PUBLIC
SERVICE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; CALLED OVER THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH AN EIGHT ZERO FOUR
STAR SIX TON MEET YOUR PHONE
AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
MY MOM WAS BORN AND RAISED
WITHIN DISTANCE OF DISEMPOWERS
.
I HAD WELL LIKED AND DRIVEN AT
COUNTLESS TIMES.
&gt;&gt; I JUST LIKE TO SAY FIRST
OF ALL WHAT YOU WOULD ONE
REGARDING NIGHTSTANDS I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO RESPOND TO SOME
OF THE POINTS RAISED IN
SKYWRITERS WHAT IT IS BEEN GOOD
AND IN MY BROTHER STADIUM
REPRESENTS THE MAIN STREETS
OF SO MUCH OF MIDDLE AMERICA
WHERE IT&apos;S JUST GEN AND FOOD
RESTAURANTS.
YES, WE HAVE A FEW SMALL
BUSINESSES BUT TO COMPARE THE
MOST WALKABLE LIKE NEW YORK TO
STADIUM AND STADIUM IS WELL IT
IS OBJECTIVELY FALSE TO THINK
THAT STICKING WITH WHAT WE HAVE
IN BALTIMORE IS THE BEST KIND
OF ACTION.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST PROBLEMS WAS
RAISED BY MAKING UNIFORM AS
POSSIBLE TO CLEAR UP ANY
CONFUSION AND STREAMLINE.
I CAN TELL YOU THINK FOR THE
FIRST TIME BEING MEETING WITH
THE STREET IS A GREAT ENTITY
JUST LEFT ME ALONE INCREASED
DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ANY HOUSING
BILL WILL INCREASE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SO GETTING LOST IN A
WEEK OF SUSTAINABILITY OR
AFFORDABILITY HAS BEEN BUILT IS
A LOT OF LEADERSHIP THAT COMES
IN PART TO ME THE KEY TO
INCREASING PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION AND WALKING AND
LOW CARBON USES ALL OF THESE IS
A GREAT EXAMPLE OF A BUSINESS
THAT HAS NO WORK HOME.
IT&apos;S A WONDERFUL SPOT.
YES, THEY HAVE PARKING BACK BUT
THEY STILL MANAGE PARKING IN
BACK THAT YES.
I JUST LIKE THAT INCREASING THE
WALKABILITY DENSITY OF THESE
AREAS AND AND SECONDLY DOWNTOWN
IF YOU WILL OUTSIDE OF DOWNTOWN
ONLY INCREASE THE PROFITABILITY
AND I ENJOY THAT.
BUT THOSE WHO WALK AND BIKE AND
DRIVE IN THIS TOWN I THINK YOU
MUCH THANK YOU
.
ABDULLAH TAYLOR, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HELLO.
I&apos;M CALLING IN BECAUSE I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT I SUPPORT
REZONING ALL THE PERSONNEL
UNLESS THEY AS THEY ARE I&apos;M
ALSO NOT A NIMBY.
THIS IS NOT NIMBY SORRY THIS IS
NOT MY BACKYARD BUT I DO
SUPPORT BECAUSE I DIDN&apos;T COME
THERE LIKE THIS HAPPEN ALL THE
IT&apos;S LIKE A GROCERY STORE SO I
GO IN THAT DIRECTION BECAUSE I
WAS TROUBLE IN THE FACTORY I
USED TO DRIVE TO ALL THE
BECAUSE MY APARTMENT WAS KIND
OF HARD.
I KNOW IT&apos;S A PROBABLY THE MOST
CARBON EFFICIENT THING BUT TO
GET THERE WOULD REQUIRE ME TO
SWITCH BUSSES AND PTC AND THAT
WAS A BIT ON THE PERSON WHOSE
MAIN INTERACTION AS A DRIVER
WHO PARKED I WILL SAY THAT AND
LOOKING AROUND AND SAYING THAT
THIS IS A WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOOD
YOU CAN SEE THAT IF YOU BUY
YOURSELF OR IF YOU YOU KNOW, IT
WAS COMPLETELY DARK AND YOU
COULDN&apos;T SEE IN FRONT OF YOU OR
SOMETHING HAD BEFALLEN YOU AND
YOU WERE NO LONGER ABLE TO YOU
KNOW, SEE IT&apos;S NOT WALKABLE.
IT&apos;S YOU HAVE TO CROSS MULTIPLE
SIX MILLION LANE ROADS THAT
INTERSECT EACH OTHER IN SEVEN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND THEN ONCE
YOU TO DESTINATION IF YOU WALK
ACROSS A LITTLE SEA IF TO GET
ANYWHERE AND THEN GET TO LET&apos;S
GET ACROSS TO SEE APARTMENT
THREE ANYWHERE YOU&apos;RE STUCK
WALKING BACK LIKE THE OTHER
PEOPLE SAID I SUPPORT ONE
BECAUSE TO SEE GOING ONE IT&apos;S
DESIGNED TO BE ADAPTED FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT ARE IN PLAY
THE OTHER NIGHT OUTLINED THAT
THE COMMUNITY WANTS A TRANSIT
ORIENTED DESIGNATION TRANSIT
ORIENTED CONSTRUCTION
OF HOUSING MAKES USE OF IT.
IT&apos;S TWENTY PLUS YEARS TO GET
TO THIS POINT WHERE WE FINALLY
GET AROUND TO MAKING SEE WHAT
HAPPEN AND WHEN PEOPLE SAY WE
DON&apos;T THINK THIS IS WHAT THE
COMMUNITY WANTS AT THIS KEY
CONCERNS DENHA THOSE PUBLIC
HEARINGS HAS BEEN OUR OWN HOURS
AND HOURS OF CITY PLANNERS
WORKING ON MAKING THIS AN
ADAPTIVE DISTRICT THAT WORKS TO
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IT&apos;S
AUTOMATICALLY AUTOMATICALLY
ADJUST 30 SECONDS AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S I APPLAUD THE PLANNERS FOR
MAKING SUCH A GOOD DISTRICT
THAT WORKS IN SUCH AN ADAPTIVE
WAY AND FOLLOWING THE COMMUNITY
ASKS IN THE LAST COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN I SUPPOSE TO BE GREAT FOR
HOUSING SUSTAINABILITY.
IT&apos;S GOING TO ADD NEIGHBORS TO
THE COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
FANTASTIC.
PLEASE PASS THIS.
THANK YOU
NASHAT CATAPULT YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; YEAH THANKS FOR HOLDING THIS
HEARING AND WANTING TO GET A
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I NEED TO TELL PAUL I AM A HOME
OWNER DRIVERS CYCLISTS AND
PEDESTRIANS IN WARD FIVE BEFORE
THAT I GREW UP IN ANN ARBOR
TOWNSHIP.
I WENT TO SKYLINE HIGH SCHOOL.
I SPENT A VERY LONG TIME ALONG
THAT MAPLE STADIUM CORRIDOR AND
TO MY BEST I&apos;M STILL LIVE ON
STADIUM NOW SO I AM A HUGE FAN
OF THIS ONE PUZZLE AND I THINK
THAT WE SHOULD EXPAND THE ONE
ACROSS THE CITY.
I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, THIS
PIECEMEAL APPROACH IS A GOOD
PLACE TO START BUT WE SHOULD BE
GOING A LOT FASTER.
FOR EXAMPLE, PLACES LIKE
WASHINGTON AND PLYMOUTH ROAD
NEED THIS ASAP AND AS A AS A
GRAD STUDENT ON CAMPUS, I THINK
THAT, YOU KNOW, WE CAN REALLY
REVITALIZE THE ROAD WITH NEW
INDUSTRIES AND IF WE DO THIS
QUICKLY THEN MAYBE IT&apos;LL HAVE A
CHANCE OF HAPPENING WHILE I&apos;M
STILL DOING MY PHD INSTEAD
MAYBE YEARS AFTERWARDS.
BUT DC ONE IS DESIGNED AS A
FLEXIBLE ZONING DISTRICT IS
SUPPOSED TO BE RESPONSIVE TO
THE LOCAL LAND USES AND WHAT
PASSES FOR AS YOU&apos;RE CLOSER TO
RESIDENTIAL TYPE OF STEP DOWN.
AND SO YOU KNOW THE WORRY THAT
LIKE RIGHT BEHIND YOUR SINGLE
FAMILY HOME YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
HAVE A NINETEEN STOREY BUILDING
IT JUST ISN&apos;T REALISTIC.
I THINK IT&apos;S LIKE THIRTY FIVE
OR FIFTY FIVE FEET.
YOU KNOW IT&apos;S NOT A SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES THAT PEOPLE ARE
USED TO BUT IT IS DEVELOPMENT
THAT IS DENSE, IT IS
SUSTAINABLE, IT IS CAR LIGHT,
IT SUPPORTS TRANSIT ACTIVE USES
MIXED USE AND A MORE VIBRANT
NEIGHBORHOOD IS THE SORT
OF THING THAT WE NEED TO DO TO
SUPPORT A GROWING CITY IN A
SUSTAINABLE FASHION WITHOUT
CREATING A LOT OF URBAN SPRAWL,
A LOT OF TRAFFIC CONGESTION AND
TO DRIVE VIBRANCY OUTSIDE
OF DOWNTOWN CORRIDORS.
AND I WANT TO SAY THAT THIS IS
ZONING RIGHT?
NO ONE&apos;S KNOCKING DOWN EXISTING
PARCELS AND IT&apos;S DIFFICULT TO
RESPOND TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD THE
DEMAND FOR WHAT&apos;S THERE AND SO
PEOPLE AREN&apos;T GOING TO BUILD
LIKE 20 STORY BUILDINGS WITH NO
PARKING.
THAT&apos;S ALL RESIDENTIAL RIGHT ON
THIS CORRIDOR WHEN THAT&apos;S LIKE
NOT WHAT PEOPLE WANT.
YOU KNOW, EVEN IF YOU ARE A
DEVELOPER YOU STILL WANT TO
BUILD SOMETHING PEOPLE WILL USE
AND WILL PAY FOR IT.
AS FOR CLIMATE GOALS, I THINK
SUSTAINABILITY IS OBVIOUSLY
GOOD BUT WHAT WE SHOULD BE
DOING BUILDING CAR LIGHT
VIBRANT COMMUNITIES WHERE
PEOPLE DON&apos;T HAVE TO DRIVE
EVERYWHERE AND EVEN IF YOU HAVE
A GAS STOVE, IF YOU CAN DRIVE
ONLY ONCE A WEEK BUT HAVE A GAS
STOVE AT HOME THAT&apos;S STILL ON
THAT A HUGE BENEFIT FROM A
SUSTAINABILITY PERSPECTIVE IF
WE DO PUT SUSTAINABILITY
REQUIREMENTS LIKE A BAN ON GAS
,I THINK THAT&apos;S SOMETHING WE
SHOULD DO ANYWAY, NOT SOMETHING
THAT WE SHOULD DO JUST IN A
CERTAIN DISTRICT AS SORT
OF LIKE A POISON PILL ON
DEVELOPMENT.
RIGHT.
IF YOU HAVE TO AN ELECTRIC
RANGE IN AN APARTMENT BUILDING
BUT SOMEHOW NOT IN LIKE A SEVEN
BEDROOM MANSION IN BARNES PARK
I MEAN AGAIN I WANT TO
REITERATE THESE CHANGES ARE
SLOW.
ONE IS DESIGNED TO BE FLEXIBLE
AND BEATING FASTER
SO WE DON&apos;T
GET TO OTHER CORRIDORS OF THE
CITY.
YOU KNOW, ONE YEAR AT A TIME IN
FIVE YEARS WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
THOMAS ROAD.
SO I&apos;M A HUGE MAN OF THIS AND I
URGE YOU ALL TO PUT THIS IN
ACTION TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
BENDING WITH SIX FOUR FOUR YOU
CAN PRESS STAR SIX TIME YOUR
PHONE AND ADJUST THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
OH MY NAME IS GAFOOR.
I LIVE AT 176 CHARLESTON WORD
FIVE.
&gt;&gt; THAT MAKES SENSE THAT P.S.
ONE IS GOING THROUGH AND I
PLANNING PRACTICE BEFORE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAS BEEN
REVIEWED AND REVISED.
OH IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE THEM IT
WOULD MAKE MORE SENSE TO REVISE
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FIRST
AND THEN TO REZONE PROPERTIES
ONE BY ONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
STATE LAW.
DOES IT MAKE SENSE TO USE C C
ONE REZONING WHICH WAS
CAREFULLY DESIGNED FOR THE
EISENHOWER CORRIDOR TO REZONE
THE STADIUM AND MAPLE CORRIDOR
WHICH IS COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
SO IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE SENSE TO ME
ONE SHOULD BE REVISED THE
STADIUM MAPLE CORRIDOR DOESN&apos;T
MAKE SENSE TO YOU C C ONE
REZONING TO GIVE EVERYTHING
AWAY ALL AT ONCE.
THE CORPORATE INVESTORS TEND TO
GO FIRST AND SO IMAGINE THAT C
C ONE COULD BE TWEAKED IN THE
FUTURE REQUIRES SOMETHING BACK
FROM ABOUT OH IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE
SENSE.
IT WOULD MAKE MORE SENSE TO USE
THIS ONE TO REQUIRE A PUBLIC
BENEFIT FOR INSTANCE MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND EXTRA
STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE AND
BETTER BUILDING MATERIALS TO
REQUIRE THOSE THINGS RIGHT NOW
RIGHT UP FRONT.
DOES IT MAKE SENSE THAT THIS
ONE HAS BEEN PERFECTLY
TAILORED?
YEAH, PERFECTLY TAILORED FOR A
DEVELOPER INTEREST INSTEAD
OF FOR THE INTERESTS OF THE
ENTIRE COMMUNITY?
NO, IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE SENSE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; COLOR ALL OVER THE PHONE.
NO ENDING WITH FIVE THREE FOUR
PLUS PLEASE PRESS STAR SIX AND
ADJUST THE PLANNING COMMISSION
UP TO THREE MINUTES BUT THIS IS
TOM STOLLBERG CALLING
LOWERTOWN.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T ME I&apos;M A THIRTY YEAR
REAL ESTATE PROFESSIONAL
INCLUDING HAVING DEVELOPED A
LOT IN OAKLAND COUNTY INCLUDING
REZONING.
I&apos;VE BEEN A PART OF MASTER PLAN
EXCUSE ME NOW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN REVISION IN ANN ARBOR AS A
CITIZEN PARTICIPANT IN AN OTHER
COMMUNITY AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T NARRATIVE OUT THERE
THAT WE DON&apos;T NEED TO REVISE
CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO
ACCOMMODATE TIGHTER QUARTERS
ZONING.
I DISAGREE WITH THAT WE HAVE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT FOR YEARS.
IT IS MENTIONED IN MULTIPLE
PARTS OF OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
BUT I BELIEVE IT IS
SELF-EVIDENT WHY WE DO PROVIDE
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN ORDER
TO ACCOMMODATE TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT AND IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE FOR THE DIFFERENT
AREAS OF TOWN THAT WE WOULD
LIKE TO INCORPORATE THOSE
WRAPAROUND.
&gt;&gt; ALTHOUGH I&apos;VE SPOKEN
PUBLICLY AS A PROPONENT
OF TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS, WE DON&apos;T
REALLY HAVE THE SYSTEM IN PLACE
IN ORDER TO HAVE A FULL TRANSIT
ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT.
FOR EXAMPLE, SOME OF THE THINGS
WE COMPARE OURSELVES TO HAVE
MASS TRANSIT STATIONS WHERE YOU
CAN DEVELOP A HUB OF ACTIVITY
OF MIXED USE ACTIVITY AROUND
THE TRANSIT STATION SO WE DON&apos;T
HAVE THAT.
WHAT CAN WE DO?
WELL, REMEMBER ONE THING WAS
JUDITH MILLER IS FOLLOWING
CHEERLEADING FOR THE BEST
POSSIBLE OUTCOME ON A SPECTRUM
OF MANY POSSIBLE OUTCOMES THAT
THIS REZONING WOULD DO.
THERE&apos;S MANY DIFFERENT THINGS
THAT COULD HAPPEN AND THERE IS
ABSOLUTELY, ABSOLUTELY NO
GUARANTEE THAT WHAT IS BEING
PROMOTED IS GOING TO BE THE
OUTCOME.
IT&apos;S MY PERSONAL OPINION AS
SOMEBODY IN THIS BUSINESS THAT
IS LESS LIKELY TO GET THE MOST
PROMOTED OUTCOME THAN OTHER
OUTCOMES.
I WILL GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE THAT
LOW TERMINATE ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE RIVER HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR A MIXED
USE URBAN VILLAGE AND A VERY
LARGE SITE.
WE DIDN&apos;T EVEN GET THAT WE USED
TO HAVE COMMERCIAL.
IT&apos;S GONE THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF COMPLICATED REASONS WHY
THAT&apos;S TRUE BUT ONE OF THEM WAS
VERY SIMPLY THAT A DEVELOPER
CAME IN AND WANTED A HIGHLY
DENSE SCIENCE AND DIDN&apos;T THE
COMMERCIAL AND DIDN&apos;T WANT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO WE HAVE A HALF PERCENT
COMMERCIAL IN ORDER TO ALLOW
THAT BUILDING WHAT I WAS WRONG
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO GET HERE
IF WE DON&apos;T IT WE&apos;RE STUCK.
WE CAN&apos;T TINKER WITH IT LATER
BECAUSE THE LAND OWNERS WHO
JUST HAD THEIR WEALTH INCREASE
BOARDED UP THE BUILDING ARE NOT
GOING TO WANT TO GIVE THAT BACK
.
&gt;&gt; WE MAY BE ABLE TO DO MUCH
BETTER WITH SUSTAINABLE
TECHNIQUES IN THE FUTURE AND
THAT&apos;S OUR LONG TERM FUTURE.
AND IF WE ARE ABLE TO GET THOSE
INTO OUR HOMES BUT IF WE GET
AWAY FROM NOW WITH A MASS
REZONING, IT&apos;S CLOTH THAT AND
IMPLEMENT I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
PROVIDE PLAN THREE MINUTES TO
MAKE THESE PROPERTIES TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ELIGIBLE AND THEN
BRING THEM IN FOR REZONING AS
THE PROJECTS COME UP AND WE
HAVE BETTER OVERSIGHT, BETTER
ABILITY OF THE FUTURE TO TINKER
WITH ATC ONE, TWO, THREE
WHATEVER IT MIGHT BE TO
SUSTAINABILITY AND MAYBE
AFFORDABILITY AND MAYBE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND WAS
ALLOWED TO DO THAT.
BUT ONCE WE GIVE AWAY THE FARM
AND MAKE THESE LANDHOLDERS
WEALTHY, THEY&apos;RE GOING TO SUE
YOU IF YOU TRY TO CLIMB BACK
FROM THAT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S THE WAY IT WORKS IN
THE REAL WORLD.
I IN THAT BUSINESS BY URGE YOU
TO NOT MASS RESOLVE THESE
PARCELS TO LET IT HAPPEN
INDIVIDUAL APPLICATIONS AT A
TIME BUT TO GO FOR WITH A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR CONCEPT ON
THIS QUARTER AND OTHER HOURS
AFTER REVISING THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ACT SHOULD
BE DONE FOR GOOD PLANNING
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU JAMES TADMORE YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU BRETT CAN HEAR ME.
YES THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I AM JUST BURIAN MY WHAT HAS
BEEN SAID SO FAR A LOT OF GREAT
COMMENTS JUST TRYING TO RESPOND
TO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
WE&apos;VE HAD A COUPLE YOUNGER MEN
IN THE PLANNING FIELD BUT
ANYWAY CERTAINLY A FORCEFUL
BOARD SAY LET&apos;S DO IT NOW.
WELL WHEN YOU LOOK KESU ON
ZONING SOMETHING SO
COMPREHENSIVE IT IS JUST A LOT
OF BUSINESSES PARKS A LOT
OF PARCELS, A LOT OF RESIDENCE.
YES.
IT&apos;S GOING TO TAKE TIME AND
HE&apos;S WILLING TO PUT IN OTHER
PARTS TO SEE YOU HAVE TO BRING
THE PUBLIC ALONG.
IT&apos;S JUST BECAUSE YOU THINK
THAT YOU&apos;RE RIGHT DOESN&apos;T MEAN
YOU JUST HAVE TO SAY DO IT AND
I SAY TO THE COMMISSIONERS JUST
BECAUSE YOU THINK YOU&apos;RE RIGHT
DOESN&apos;T MEAN YOU DON&apos;T ENGAGE
THE PUBLIC.
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO NEED TO ENGAGE
THE PUBLIC, NEED TO CONTINUE TO
ENGAGE THE PUBLIC, MAYBE A
COMPREHENSIVE CHANGE OF LAND
USE PLACE NECESSARY PROBABLY
YES.
BUT CERTAINLY YOU BRING THE
PUBLIC ALONG AND YOU HAVE TO
WORK WITH THEM AND I&apos;M SORRY
THAT THAT MAKES PEOPLE
IMPATIENT.
CITY STREETS I THINK IT&apos;S I DO
SUPPORT THE CONCEPT OF THAT.
I THINK WE NEED TO HAVE A
CERTAINLY WALKABILITY ISSUE.
I THINK HAVING SETBACKS IS
PROBABLY A BIT MUCH MAYBE HAVE
A LITTLE BIT FOR PEOPLE ON THE
STREET YOU NEED TO BE A
COMPROMISE PAYING PEOPLE WHO
ARE TRYING TO DRIVE PEOPLE INTO
THE NEW BUSINESSES AND
BUILDINGS BALSAMIC AND LEVEL
FOR THE PEOPLE ON THE STREET
DOESN&apos;T THE CURRENT SITUATION
IS IS THIS NECESSARY DESIRABLE
.
BUT I LEAVE THAT TO THE EYE
OF THE BEHOLDER.
I WOULD AGREE IN TERMS OF WHAT
ABOUT INCENTIVES TO DEVELOP IF
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE THIS TYPE
OF TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
,THERE NEED TO BE INCENTIVES
IN THERE I THINK IN ORDER TO
PROVIDE SOMETHING AND TO MAKE
THE CHANGE YOU NEED TO MAKE
SURE TO DEVELOPER IS BRINGING
BACK TO THE COMMUNITY YOU NEED
TO HAVE AND PROVIDE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
NO, THE MILITIA DOES NOT
COVER IT BECAUSE PEOPLE WALKS
OF LIFE TO LIVE TOGETHER
CLOSELY NOT IN A SEGREGATED
AREA AND ALSO IT NEEDS TO BE
SUSTAINABLE.
&gt;&gt; IT NEEDS TO BE SUSTAINABLE
NOW IN TERMS OF BUILDING
FORWARD, WE NEED TO HAVE THOSE
THINGS IN PLACE NOW IN ORDER
FOR US TO GET AHEAD DENSITY.
SURE.
THAT&apos;S GREAT.
THE MORE THE MERRIER.
HOWEVER, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
DENSITY I MEAN IF YOU GREATER
DENSITY SUPPLY WHY ISN&apos;T
MANHATTAN CHEAPER?
I MEAN THAT&apos;S JUST A FACETIOUS
ARGUMENT FINALLY IN TERMS
OF THE DEVELOPMENT THAT&apos;S GOING
IN, YES, YOU CAN HAVE GREATER
DEPTH DC LONG TRANSIT CORRIDORS
.
WE WANT TO HAVE INCENTIVES SO
THAT THAT
THAT BUSINESSES CAN
REMAIN OTHERWISE.
WE WERE LOOKING AT ANOTHER
GEORGE TYPE SITUATION.
I DON&apos;T SUPPORT FOR THAT AT THE
LAST MEETING BUT IS THAT A
DESIRABLE OPTION?
I DON&apos;T THINK SO.
FINALLY MOVING FORWARD THERE
ARE A LOT OF UNIQUE BUSINESSES
THAT ARE IN THE AREA SOMETHING
I&apos;M PERSONALLY FOND OF THAT BE
AFFECTED IF THEY WANT TO GROW
AND THEY DON&apos;T NECESSARILY THE
MONEY TO MOVE THE BETTER.
AND IN THAT ARTICLE I THINK A
CITY HAS TO BE VERY CAREFUL IN
TERMS OF REZONING SO THAT THESE
BUSINESSES MANY OF THEM ARE
SMALL BUSINESSES BUT SOME
OF THE BEST IN ANN ARBOR THEY
NEED TO BE SUPPORTED ALONG THE
WAY.
CAVEATS FOLKS.
MY SHE SAYS THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
ADAM GOODMAN, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I ATTENDED MANY 400 VIRGINIA
AVENUE.
I&apos;VE SPOKEN TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BUT DO YOU SEE ONE
IN AT LEAST ONCE ABOUT THE
STADIUM CORRIDOR?
AND I BASICALLY WANT TO
REITERATE MY SUPPORT BUT
SPECIFICALLY TALK TO YOU ABOUT
A SENSE OF URGENCY.
WE ARE AFTER ALL FACING A
CLIMATE CRISIS IN THE HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS THAT&apos;S
WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF WE DO NOT
DO THIS REZONING AND DO IT
WITHOUT DELAY.
WE WILL CONTINUE SEEING SMALL
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE TOWNSHIPS.
THERE&apos;S A HUGE IN HARBOR AND ME
YOU TALK TO ME AND WE WILL SEE
MORE PEOPLE MOVING INTO THE
REGION INTO THE TEST MARGINS
BUT WE HAVE NO SUSTAINABILITY
REQUIREMENTS OF ANY TIME KIND
AND ARE NOT ACCESSIBLE BY ANY
MEANS OF TRANSPORT OTHER THAN
PRIVATE CARS WILL CONTINUE TO
DRIVE MORE TRAFFIC INTO OUR
CITY FROM THOSE PEOPLE
COMMUTING WE WILL CONTINUE TO
SEE HOUSING PRICES RISE
PRECIPITOUSLY AS THOSE
DEVELOPMENTS WON&apos;T BE
AFFORDABLE AND WE&apos;LL BE
BURDENED BY HIGH TRANSPORTATION
COSTS BECAUSE CARS ARE
EXPENSIVE WDM BE A HOSTILE
PLACE TO WALK TO RIDE A BIKE
AND LET&apos;S BE CLEAR IT IS A
HOSTILE PLACE TO WALK RIGHT.
IT&apos;S CHOCK FULL OF THESE HUGE
SURFACE PARKING LOTS AND WE
ALREADY MADE SOME MODEST
EFFORTS TO FIX THIS AS
DESCRIBED IN THE 2003 LAND USE
SUPPLEMENT THAT HASN&apos;T WORKED
AND LEST WE FORGET SOME OF WAS
JUST TRYING TO CROSS THIS RIVER
EARLIER THIS YEAR SO WE CAN
MAKE A TRULY WELCOMING FOR
PEOPLE USING ALL MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION UNLESS WE
CHANGE THE UNDERLYING BASIS NOW
IT MIGHT EVEN GET WORSE.
THE DEVELOPMENTS WE&apos;VE SEEN
PROPOSED ALONG WDTN THE LAST
FEW YEARS THE DRIVE THRU MAKES
A BIG SELF-STORAGE FACILITY THE
SIZE UP SO MAYBE YOU CAN BUILD
A NEW CAR DEALERSHIP.
THESE TYPES OF USES
DISPROPORTIONATE NUMBER OF CAR
TRIPS AND DISPROPORTIONATELY
DANGEROUS CONFLICT AREAS
BICYCLISTS AND PERSEVERANCE
PEDESTRIANS SORRY CHANGES COME
INTO THIS CORNER WHETHER WE
LIKE OR NOT ACTUALLY SHARE SOME
OF THE CONCERNS THAT OTHERS
MENTIONED ABOUT KEEPING LOCAL
BUSINESSES AROUND.
BUT I THINK THE RISKS OF NOT
DOING THIS ARE MUCH GREATER
THAN THE RISKS OF DOING THIS.
SO THIS IS BASED ON LONG
COMPARING.
THIS IS WHY CHIESI ONE FOR
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY EVEN IF IT
DOESN&apos;T INCLUDE SOME SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS AROUND THESE
THINGS.
YEAH, I KNOW THE PREVIOUS MAYBE
THESE THINGS ARE WORTH
EXPLORING BUT WE SHOULD DO THAT
CITYWIDE IN THE PARKS.
MAYBE WE SHOULD START WITH
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES WHICH ARE
NATURALLY LESS EFFICIENT, LESS
AFFORDABLE THAN THIS KIND
OF DENSE HARD LIKE MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
HERE.
MY MESSAGE IS THAT MAKE THE
PERFECT THE ENEMY OF THE GOOD I
STRONGLY SUPPORT RESIGN THE
SOLE QUARTER THIRTY MORE
SECONDS WITHOUT DELAY AND
WITHOUT WITHOUT ANY CHANGES
BECAUSE I THINK IT&apos;S THAT MUCH
BETTER CAN WE NOT DO IT?
AND I DO BELIEVE CONTRARY TO
WHAT THE PEOPLE HAVE SAID THAT
IF IF WE DON&apos;T GET IT PERFECTLY
RIGHT NOW THERE ARE
OPPORTUNITIES TO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU PAUL.
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH THREE SIX SEVEN YOU CAN
PRESS STAR SIX TIME AT YOUR
PHONE AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
YES.
THIS IS BRIAN CHAMBERS.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES.
BUT AT OVER CHANGING THE PACE
OF CHANGE PICKING UP WE&apos;VE HAD
TO PICK ONE DISTRICT
DESIGNATION.
IT&apos;S BEEN APPLIED TO THE SOUTH
STREET CORRIDOR.
IT&apos;S NOW BEING CONSIDERED
APPLICATION TO THE OF METRO
AREA THERE ARE TWO OTHER AREAS
IDENTIFIED FOR CONSIDERATION
ALONG WATCHING FROM THE
CORRIDORS WE HAVE NEW COUNCIL.
I MEAN AGAIN I BELIEVE IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE IT WAS A
DEMOCRATIC ELECTION AND THE
DYNAMICS OVER TIME SHOWED THE
DIRECTION THAT THE AND
RESIDENTS WANT TO TAKE A THE
COUNCIL TABLE SEE ONE
INITIATIVE THAT I THINK LIKE
TWO COUNCILS ARE GOING WHAT I
LOST TRACK OF BUT COVID STARTED
I GUESS IT WAS THE LAST COUNCIL
ONE CAME UP TO THE TABLE THAT
THEY COULD HAVE INCLUDED.
THEY COULD HAVE CHANGED IT,
THEY COULD HAVE MARKED IT.
THEY COULD HAVE STARTED THE WAY
THEY WANTED WHEN THEY WERE
THERE IN THE MAJORITY INTEREST
THAT WAS DIFFERENT THAN THE
INCOMING COUNCIL THAT&apos;S COMING
ONLINE.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS A REALITY AND
DEMOCRATICALLY MOVING FORWARD
ON THESE TYPES OF INITIATIVES.
THERE IS NO LEGAL CLAIM THAT
REZONING IS NOT FOLLOWING THE
STATE REQUIREMENTS FOR MASTER
PLAN UPDATE&apos;S.
THERE&apos;S NO LEGAL CHALLENGE
AGAINST THAT.
BUT I AM AWARE THAT IN SPITE
OF WHAT PEOPLE VERBALLY WANT TO
SAY ON THIS CALL, THAT&apos;S JUST
NOT THE CASE.
BUT THE QUESTION IS CAN AN
ARBITRARY SORT OF LEVEL
OF GROWTH WILL BE ZONED TO SOME
FORM BASED ZONING CAPACITY ONCE
THE COMPREHENSIVE LANGUAGE PLAN
UPDATE ACTUALLY MOVES FORWARD?
I UNDERSTAND THAT IN THE CITY
BUDGET PLAN.
SO IT&apos;S NOT THAT THAT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO OCCUR.
IT&apos;S COMING BACK AND MANY
LIKELIHOOD I EXPECT THAT TO
MOVE FORWARD AS WELL.
BUT WHAT DOES THAT MEAN IN
RETURN FOR AN ARTICLE IN THEN
GROWTH COMING OUT OF WORLD WAR
TWO?
THERE IS A HUNDRED THREE
HUNDRED AND FORTY PERCENT
INCREASE HOUSING UNITS FROM THE
FORTY YEAR PERIOD TO 1940 TO
1980 ONLY A 46 PERCENT INCREASE
ON NINETEEN EIGHTY TO TWENTY
TWENTY RATHER MARGINAL GROWTH
IN COMPARISON CITY HAS BEEN
GROWTH THE 70S AND THE 80S
WHERE MANY PEOPLE GO OUT AND
SAY TIMES HAVE CHANGED FOR NO
LONGER THAN AN HOUR IT WOULD BE
WORTH THIRTY SECONDS LONGER
DENHA BUT WE IN NINETEEN FORTY
EITHER SO I WELCOME THIS CHANGE
I MENTIONED STRONG AFTER FORD
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
BUDGET PROVIDED BY ONE.
I TOTALLY EXPECT THAT IT WILL
BE APPLIED TO THOSE TWO
ADDITIONAL CORRIDORS I
REFERENCE.
I ENCOURAGE IT TO MOVE FORWARD.
I ENCOURAGE THE TIMING BY ONE
DISTRICT TO BECOME INFORMED SO
WE CAN GET TO THE BACK AND WORK
IMMEDIATELY AFTER TWENTY SIX
THOUSAND INCREASE HOUSING UNITS
THAT OCCURRED IN WORLD WAR TWO
POSTWAR GROWTH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND I SEE
ON CHANGE AS IT HAS IN THE PAST
AND WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO
GOING FORWARD.
THANK YOU MICHEL HUGHES.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; HI.
I&apos;M EXCITED ABOUT THIS
REZONING.
THIS IS AN AREA WHERE IF I EVER
HAVE TO GO TO THIS AREA FOR A
BUSINESS OR SHOPPING OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT, I&apos;LL SAY
THAT I&apos;LL TELL MY FAMILY I&apos;M
GOING TO KARLAN.
I&apos;LL GO OUT TO CAR LAND FOR
BUSINESS NOT TO GET SOME GO GET
SOMETHING AND THEN I RIDE MY
BIKE UP THERE AND I DO NOT LIKE
THAT I GO TO THE PLACE THAT I
INTENDED TO GO TO PICK UP MY
THING AND THEN I GET OUT
OF THERE SAFETY AS FAST AS
POSSIBLE BECAUSE IT&apos;S NEVER
FEELS LIKE A SAFE PLACE TO BE
IN A FUN PLACE TO BE BECAUSE IT
FEELS LIKE A PLACE WHERE YOU&apos;VE
BEEN THROUGH IT AND THAT&apos;S AND
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE THAT CHANGE
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T THINK THAT WE
SHOULD HAVE LAWS IN OUR CITY
THAT REQUIRE CERTAIN PARTS TO
BE DANGEROUS AND STRESSFUL.
I THINK THAT WE SHOULD IMAGINE
THAT ANYBODY WOULD WANT TO BE
THE ARE THAT LOVE AND SAY THAT
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE WANT.
AND I THINK A LOT OF US WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT THE THINGS WE LOVE
ABOUT ANN ARBOR, WE TALK ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, THINGS THAT ARE
DOWNTOWN AND WE TALK ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, BUMPING INTO PEOPLE AND
YOU TALK ABOUT, YOU KNOW, GOING
FROM PLACE TO PLACE RATHER THAN
LIKE YOU KNOW, WE DON&apos;T WE
DON&apos;T WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE
THINGS WE LOVE, WE&apos;RE NOT
USUALLY TALKING ABOUT GETTING
INTO A CAR, GOING TO A SHOPPING
DESTINATION, DOING SOME
SHOPPING AND THEN DRIVING YOUR
CAR HOME AND THEN STAYING.
AND WE TALK ABOUT THE THINGS
THAT WE LOVE, THINGS LIKE THE
THINGS THAT CAUSE THIS
COMMUNITY TO BE VIBRANT AND
EXCITING ARE THINGS THAT ARE
ABOUT MAKING SPONTANEOUS
CONNECTIONS.
PEOPLE SEE PEOPLE DOING THINGS,
ENCOUNTERING DIVERSE PEOPLE
WITH DIVERSE PERSPECTIVES AND
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE CAN&apos;T
DO IF WE DON&apos;T PLAN BASED ON
CARS FIRST.
AND SO I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE US
CHANGING THE WAY CAN THINKING
ABOUT DOING THINGS WE LIVE IN
ARBOR BECAUSE WE WANT TO HANG
ONTO BECAUSE IT&apos;S BECAUSE IT&apos;S
A VIBRANT AND EXCITING
COMMUNITY AND I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE
MORE OF OUR COMMUNITY DIVIDED
AND FIGHTING IN MY VILLAGE IN
THE SUBURBS THERE&apos;S PLENTY
OF SUBURBS THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
COULD WE COULD JUST DO THAT.
BUT WE ARE HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
THAT WOULD BE LOVELY AND I
WOULD LIKE THERE TO BE MORE
OF AN OFFER THAT IS NO.
SO I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE
ONE GO IN
AND YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT THIS
IS THE CHANCE GIVING US ALL THE
KINDS OF THINGS THAT WE CAN BE
PROUD OF AND THANK YOU.
THANK YOU CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING WITH THREE FOUR
ZERO, YOU CAN START SIX AND
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION FOR
THREE MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
ANN ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS LUIS VASQUEZ.
THIRTY EIGHT YEAR RESIDENT
OF THE FIRST WORD AND JUST
WANTED TO LEND MY SUPPORT TO
THIS ONE.
&gt;&gt; XINING I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
REITERATE ALL THE GOOD REASONS
THAT HAVE BEEN SPOKEN ABOUT SO
FAR BY MANY OF THE CALLERS IN
THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
BUT JUST SUFFICE IT TO SAY, YOU
KNOW, FOR THOSE WHO PREDICTED
THAT THERE WOULD BE A HUGE RUSH
TO BUILD SO MANY AID USE AFTER
PLANNING COMMISSION AND OUR
COUNCIL, A CITY COUNCIL HAD
VOTED TO ALLOW AND LOOSEN THE
RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNITS WHILE THERE HAS
BEEN NO THE NEW POCALYPSE THAT
I HAVE NOTICED IN ANN ARBOR.
SO I WOULD EXPECT MANY OF THE
NAYSAYERS PREDICTIONS ABOUT ONE
ZONING WILL ALSO SIMILARLY NOT
COME TRUE BUT THANK YOU FOR
YOUR TIME.
I URGE YOU TO SUPPORT 261
ZONING SENDED THE COUNCIL AND
LET&apos;S GET IT APPROVED AND LET&apos;S
START BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, CARLA.
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH SIX ZERO FOUR YOU CAN
PRESS STAR SIX DONE ON YOUR
PHONE AND ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION FOR A FEW
POSTMODERNITY PEOPLE IN THE
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL TO THE COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; WE GET PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
YOUR VIEW ON NOTHING OR THEY BE
OR SOMETHING LIKE A CONCRETE
PLAN OR GET INVOLVED A
YEAR OR
PEOPLE PEOPLE LIKE
THAT AT WORK
LIKE ANOTHER ONE I WORK ON OUR
GROUP.
WHEN YOU WOULD TAKE A LOOK AT
YOU AT BAGRAM WE&apos;RE GOING TO
MAKE ABOUT
ABOUT BUILDING
FAITHING THE ONLY WALWA
GIANFORTE SO NO MORE WOULD YOU
LIKE I KNOW RECAL
SAY THAT PART
OF OUR SO WE&apos;RE GOING DOWN
RIGHT HERE.
THANK YOU
CALLED THE PHONE
NUMBER WITH THREE FOUR ZERO
BRUSSTAR SIX ME YOUR PHONE
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH SIX ZERO FOUR YOU
CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO MUTE YOUR
PHONE AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO LIKE
CALL
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH SIX THREE TWO YOU CAN
START SIX ON YOUR PHONE AND
JUST THE COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES STRONGMAN AND I LITTLE
DRIVE IN THE SECOND
NEIGHBORHOOD JUST KEEP BACK
EAST OF THE PROPOSED REZONING
AREA.
I&apos;M HOPING TO GO BEFORE A
PUBLIC MEETING HEARING ABOUT
THIS THOUGH REGARDING AND I WAS
REALLY EXCITED WHEN I FIRST
HEARD ABOUT IT EARLIER THIS
YEAR.
I&apos;VE BEEN STRUCK TONIGHT AND
SOME OF THE OTHER PUBLIC
MEETINGS I WAS FUNDED BY HOW
MANY PEOPLE SAY THEY ARE IN
FAVOR OF REZONING OF THE
BUILDING OF MORE HOUSES IN
THEORY BUT JUST NOT HERE OR NOT
THIS WAY.
AND I REALLY HOPE THAT PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS WILL FOLLOW THE
RECOMMENDATION OF THE BSA AND
OF THE MANY VOICES THAT I&apos;VE
HEARD TONIGHT INSTEAD OF OUR
MEETING IN SUPPORT OF THIS
CHANGE WE NEED MORE OF OTHER
REPUBLICANS HAVE SAID THE
PEOPLE IS THAT PEOPLE WALKABLE
IT&apos;S NOT SUPER BEAUTIFUL.
IT IS A PARKING LOT AND IN FACT
WE WENT AFTER ONE OF THE FIRST
PUBLIC MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT
COMPULSORY VOTING THAT FRED
AFTER ATTENDING A MEETING AT
THE LIBRARY BECAUSE THERE
WASN&apos;T REALLY ANYWHERE NEARBY
THAT YOU COULD GO AND FIGURE
OUT THAT MULTIPLE I REMEMBER
SAYING WOULDN&apos;T IT BE GREAT IF
THIS AREA WAS ALSO WALKABLE?
&gt;&gt; I WILL I WILL SAY THAT I
AGREE WITH AND UNDERSTAND THE
CONCERNS BUT HAVE RAISED ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY, ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND I
EXPRESSED FRUSTRATION THAT WE
LIVE IN A STATE WHERE THERE ARE
A LOT OF THINGS THAT WE SIMPLY
CANNOT DO THROUGH LOCAL LOCAL
MUNICIPALITY DECREES OR THROUGH
ZONING.
AND I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
EXTENT TO WHICH MR. LEONARD AND
OTHER STAFF HAVE EXPLAINED THIS
TO THE CITIZENS AND PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS AT A MEETING.
WHAT WE CAN DO AS A COMMUNITY
TO FOLLOW THROUGH WITH OUR
VALUES IS TO USE THE TOOLS THAT
WE HAVE FOR THE RECOMMENDATIONS
GIVEN TO US BY EXPERTS LIKE
THAT.
&gt;&gt; THE LEADERSHIP OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS AND IN
PARLIAMENT VALUES TO BUILD
HOUSING IS A PUBLIC GOOD TO
BUILD A QUARTER TO GO ALONG
WITH THE WONDERFUL BUILD THAT
HOUSE INCREASED OBSERVERS
OF ACA.
IT&apos;S VERY CLEAR BASED ON WHAT
THE VOTERS HAVE SAID ABOUT
SOMEONE ELSE REFERENCE THAT THE
VAST MAJORITY OF THE COMMUNITY
SUPPORT THIS TYPE
OF DEVELOPMENT IN ANN ARBOR
THAT I HOPE THAT WHILE THAT AS
SOMEONE ELSE SAID EARLIER THE
PERFECT BE THE ENEMY OF THE
GOOD
FROM REMEMBERING WITH
THREE FOUR ZERO.
&gt;&gt; HAVE YOU ADDRESSED THE
COMMISSION ALREADY STAR SIX
OF YOU HAVE NOT
THAT IS ALL
CLOSED THE PUBLIC COMMENTARY
AND I GUESS I&apos;M JUST TRYING TO
GET A SENSE OF WHETHER FOLKS
NEED A BREAK BEFORE WE OR IF
YOU MOVE ON TO THAT
ENTERTAINMENT.
&gt;&gt; OH, THERE&apos;S ANOTHER SPEAKER
SORRY.
YEAH, SURE.
GO AHEAD.
OH NO.
ENDING WITH FOUR SIX FOUR YOU
CAN BRUSSTAR
SIX TO ADDRESS THE
PLAN FOR THREE MINUTES ONE YES
.
ANY BUT THE PEOPLE TO SEE WHAT
IN YOUR DOWNTOWN AND THE IDEA
OF TRANSIT ALL THE WEEK
EVERYBODY TALKING ABOUT I&apos;M NOT
A FAN OF OPEN PARKING LOT AND
IN GENERAL YOU KNOW YOUR BODY
YOUR
MANY, MANY APPROACH YOU
WANT TO GIVE ABOUT WHAT YOU
THINK OR WHAT YOU BY THAT
APPROACH NO THE YOU WANT TO EAT
A QUARTER
OR THAT AMOUNT
OF INPUT FROM CITIZENS THAT
HAVE BEEN AT MEETING AND THAT
PEOPLE FROM THE
ABOUT YOUR OWN
PROBABLY MORE BA BA BA BA BA BA
BA BA BA YOU MORE AND I THAT WE
SHOULD BE AWARE THIS
IS WHAT
MANY DID
ABOUT THE ABILITY TO
QUALIFY AND WHAT WENT WRONG BUT
IN THE
MANY PLACES MANY OF BUT
WE BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA
BA.
I WANT YOU TO GO YOU&apos;VE SAID
THAT THANK YOU
.
NO ADDITIONAL SPEAKERS
INDICATED A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
OK I THINK THAT WE WILL CLOSE A
PUBLIC HEARING AND I SENSING
SOME OK LET&apos;S TAKE A LET&apos;S TAKE
A BREAK.
SO HOW ABOUT WE TAKE A SEVEN
MINUTE BREAK SO COME BACK AT
NINE TWELVE
AND COMMISSION IS
BACK IN SESSION SO THANK YOU
FOR ACCOMMODATING OUR BREAK
HERE AND I WILL READ THE MOTION
AND THEN WE WILL HAVE
DISCUSSION AFTER READING THE
MOTION THAT OUR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE AMENDMENTS TO THE
ZONING MAP A PART OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TO DESIGNATE THE ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS OF PARCELS IN
THE WEST STADIUM BOULEVARD AND
NORTH SOUTH MAPLE ROAD AREA IS
TSAY ONE AS SHOWN ON THE
ATTATCHED MAP MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH.
ALL RIGHTY DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER DISH SO THANK YOU
ALL FOR YOUR COMMENTS.
MANY OF YOU WHO SPOKE TONIGHT
EXPRESSED GREAT AFFECTION AND
APPRECIATION FOR YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ONE CANNOT
HELP BUT BE MOVED BY AND
RESPOND TO THAT.
I THINK THAT SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT YOU FEAR ARE NOT CHANGES
LIKELY TO HAPPEN AND NONE OF US
HAS A CRYSTAL BALL.
&gt;&gt; BUT I WANTED TO SAY A FEW
WORDS ABOUT BY IT IS ONE OF THE
CALLERS EXPRESSED A SENSE
OF URGENCY ABOUT TSAY ONE
ZONING AND I WOULD LIKE TO
PROVIDE SOME OF MY THOUGHTS FOR
WHY THERE IS AN URGENCY FOR
DOING THIS AND I&apos;D LIKE TO SAY
THAT BETWEEN 1990 AND 2010
POPULATION GREW MUCH, MUCH MORE
SLOWLY IN ANN ARBOR THAN IT DID
IN WASHTENAW COUNTY WATCHING
OUR COUNTY SAW POPULATION
GROWTH OVER TWENTY TWO PERCENT
AT THAT DURING THAT SAME TWO
DECADE PERIOD AND AVERAGE
GROWTH WAS A LITTLE BIT OVER
FOUR PERCENT.
IT&apos;S BEEN ON THE UPSWING SINCE
TWENTY TEN BECAUSE WE HAVE SEEN
DENSER DEVELOPMENT IN ANN ARBOR
SINCE 2010 AND INTERESTINGLY
WASHTENAW COUNTY COUNTY&apos;S
POPULATION HAS BEEN ON THE
DECLINE SINCE THEN.
THERE ARE PROBABLY MANY FACTORS
EXPLAINING THAT BUT CERTAINLY
THE FACT THAT ANN ARBOR IS A
MAJOR EMPLOYER FOR SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN EXPLAINS SOME OF IT.
MUCH OF THE DEVELOPMENT THAT
WE&apos;VE SEEN IN ANN ARBOR HAS
BEEN RISES IN THE MOST
EXPENSIVE PARTS OF TOWN AND
SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING ON THE
PERIPHERY IN AREAS NOT WELL
SERVED BY TRANSIT IN MY VIEW TO
SEE ONE ZONING IS A PROP..
WHAT WOULD ANN ARBOR BE LIKE IF
THERE WERE GREATER DENSITY ON
TRANSIT CORRIDORS OUTSIDE
OF DOWNTOWN?
WHO WOULD BE ABLE TO LIVE HERE
?
WHO WOULD COME BACK?
WHO WOULD COME WHO NEVER
THOUGHT OF DOING NOW SHOULD WE
WRITE SOMETHING INTO THE
ORDINANCE TO OFFER ADDITIONAL
DENSITY AS A REWARD OR PREMIUM
FOR AFFORDABILITY?
THIS IS A GOOD QUESTION.
WE THOUGHT ABOUT IT.
WE DECIDED NOT TO WANT TO LIST
THREE WAYS YOU CAN GET
AFFORDABILITY AND ONE WAY YOU
CANNOT.
ONE WAY IS THROUGH LOCATION.
ANOTHER WAY IS THROUGH
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING AND IT&apos;S
BEST WHEN YOU COMBINE THOSE TWO
THE THIRD WAY IS TO BUILD MORE
HOUSING THE HOUSING THAT WAS
BUILT A DECADE AROUND TWENTY
TEN AS LUXURY HOUSING IS MORE
AFFORDABLE THAN WHAT&apos;S BEEN
BUILT SINCE TWENTY NINETEEN.
THE PRICES OF THAT HOUSING WAS
BUILT IN TWENTY TEN FALLS AS
THE NEWER MORE MORE AMENITIES
FILLED MULTIFAMILY MULTIFAMILY
STRUCTURES GO UP NOW WHAT YOU
CANNOT DO IS YOU CANNOT REQUIRE
DEVELOPERS TO PROVIDE
AFFORDABILITY THAT AGAINST
MICHIGAN LAW.
IT IS NOT AGAINST THE LAW IN
CALIFORNIA BUT IT IS AGAINST
THE LAW HERE.
SO THOUGH YOU CANNOT REQUIRE
DEVELOPERS TO PROVIDE IT, YOU
CAN TRADE THEM FOR IT.
YOU OFFER THEM SOMETHING THEY
WANT WHICH IS DENSITY IN
EXCHANGE FOR WHAT WE WANT
AFFORDABILITY.
ARE WE GIVING AWAY DENSITY IN
EXCHANGE FOR NOTHING?
ARE WE DOOMING IT NOT TO BE
AFFORDABLE BECAUSE WE HAVEN&apos;T
CHOSEN TO TO DO THAT KIND
OF TRADE?
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE SO.
T SEE ONE AS A VERY GOOD JOB
WITH THE FIRST THREE WAYS YOU
CAN GET AFFORDABILITY LOCATION
MULTIFAMILY BUILD MORE HOUSING.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE NEED TO BUILD
A DENSITY PREMIUM IN BUT HOW
ABOUT WRITING SOMETHING INTO
THE ORDINANCE FOR ADDITIONAL
DENSITY AS A PREMIUM FOR
ELECTRIFICATION ALSO A GOOD
QUESTION ALSO SOMETHING WE
CONSIDERED ALSO SOMETHING WE
DECIDED NOT TO.
I AM ALL FOR REQUIRING
ELECTRIFICATION AND I WILL WORK
HARD TO SEE THAT IT HAPPENS
THAT I WANT TO MAKE IT A
UNIVERSAL REQUIREMENT OF ALL
NEW DEVELOPMENT NOT JUST TAKE
ONE TO MAKE EXTRA DENSITY A
PREMIUM FOR SUSTAINABILITY IN
TSAY ONE WOULD AS MR. CARTER
PAUL NOTED, BE A POISON PILL
FOR TSAY ONE BECAUSE
DEVELOPMENT WOULD BUILD ANY
PLACE IT COULD DO SO WITHOUT
HAVING TO PROVIDE SOMETHING
THAT MAKES IT LESS COMPETITIVE
THAN OTHER DEVELOPMENTS.
SO WE NEED TO MAKE THAT MAKE A
LEVEL PLAYING FIELD WHICH MEANS
IT NEEDS TO BE A UNIVERSAL
REQUIREMENT.
I WANT TO ADDRESS JUST TWO MORE
THINGS BECAUSE I KNOW MY
COLLEAGUES ARE HAVE MANY THINGS
THEY WANT TO SAY AND THEY WILL
DO SO MORE ARTICULATELY THAN I
CAN.
BUT WE HEARD SEVERAL TIMES THAT
YOU WANTED US TO WAIT FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN
UPDATE.
THE FACT IS THAT WE ARE
CATCHING UP WITH A VISION THAT
WAS EXPRESSED IN SEVERAL
ELEMENTS OF THE EXISTING
COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN SOME
OF WHICH ARE MORE THAN A DECADE
OLD BUT MOST OF WHICH ARE NOT.
SO WE ARE BEHIND OUR MASTER
PLAN AND AND YOU COULD ALWAYS
WITH THIS ARGUMENT YOU COULD
ALWAYS SAY WELL YOU&apos;RE ABOUT TO
DO ANOTHER MASTER PLAN SO YOU
SHOULD WAIT UNTIL THAT TO MAKE
THIS BIG CHANGE THEN CHANGE
WILL NEVER HAPPEN AND MY SENSE
OF URGENCY WILL INCREASE IN TO
UNSUSTAINABLE LEVELS FOR MY
BRAIN AND A NUMBER OF YOU HAVE
HAVE RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT
PARKING MAINLY I&apos;M JUST GOING
TO ADDRESS THE PARKING OVERFLOW
PART PARKING IS NOT FORBIDDEN.
THE CITY IS NO LONGER MANDATING
A MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARKING
SPACES THAT DOES NOT MEAN THE
DEVELOPERS ARE GOING TO GO
DEVELOPMENTS ARE GOING TO GO UP
WITHOUT PARKING BANKS WILL
REQUIRE SOME LEVEL OF PARKING
OR THEY AREN&apos;T GOING TO LOAN TO
THESE DEVELOPERS BUT WE THINK
THAT MINIMUM LEVELS OF PARKING
ARE BETTER DECIDED BY WHAT YOUR
WHAT YOUR FINANCIER WANTS THAT
DECIDED BY US BECAUSE WHAT WE
ARE SEEING IS OVER PROVISION
OF PARKING WE ARE SEEING AND SO
WE ARE SEEING DEVELOPERS BUYING
SPACES IN PARKING STRUCTURES
THAT IN ORDER TO MEET THE
PARKING MINIMUM THAT GO UNUSED
THEY PASS THOSE COSTS ON TO
THEIR RENTERS.
WE DON&apos;T WANT THEM TO DO THAT
ANYMORE.
SO ELIMINATING MINIMUM PARKING
IS NOT THE SAME THING AS
PROHIBITING PARKING.
THERE WILL BE PARKING IN THE
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
THERE WILL LIKELY I SHOULD SAY
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T HAVE A CRYSTAL
BALL.
THE PARKING OFFERED IN THE
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS THAT
ARE BUILT IN DC ONE I&apos;M GOING
TO STOP THERE AND LET THE REST
OF YOU GO.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
INTERJECT AT THIS POINT
ACTUALLY BECAUSE I WAS NOT PART
OF THE ORDINANCE REVIEW
COMMITTEE&apos;S DISCUSSION AND I
WOULD BE VERY CURIOUS TO KNOW
WHAT THAT DISCUSSION WAS ABOUT
BEFORE WE MOVE ON BECAUSE SO
MANY PEOPLE REFERENCED IT AND I
I DON&apos;T GET THE INFORMATION
THAT THEY GET IN TERMS OF STAFF
REPORTS AND THINGS LIKE THAT
AND I DIDN&apos;T DO MY HOMEWORK BY
ASKING SOMEBODY FOR IT
SEPARATELY AND SO I JUST THINK
IT WOULD HELP ALL OF US TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE&apos;RE KIND OF ALL
DEALING WITH THE SAME
INFORMATION IF SOMEBODY FROM
THAT COMMISSION COULD TELL US
WHAT THE DIALOG WAS ABOUT,
PERHAPS MR. LEONARD COULD CHIME
IN IN TERMS OF THE THE STAFF
REPORT THAT THEY PUT TOGETHER
SO WE JUST HAVE A SENSE OF THE
HISTORY THAT THEN COULD ALLOW
US I THINK TO HAVE A LITTLE BIT
MORE FULL DISCUSSION ON THIS.
&gt;&gt; BUT LET ME START TO HIGH
LEVEL STAFF PRESENTED TO THE
AUDIENCE COMMITTEE A PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO THIS REZONING THAT
WOULD PULL OUT SOME OF THE
GEOGRAPHIC AREA THAT IS
PROPOSED HERE THAT WE HAD
QUESTIONS ABOUT SOME OF THE
UNIQUE CHARACTERISTICS
OF PARTICULARLY SOME OF THE
SMALLER PARCELS AND WHETHER OR
NOT THIS ONE WAS THE BEST PLACE
TO REALIZE THE BEST TOOL TO
REALIZE THE GOALS ON SMALLER
PARCELS WE PRESENTED THOSE TO
THOSE THOSE THOUGHTS THE
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS COMMITTEE.
I THINK IN SHORT IT WAS A GOOD
DISCUSSION.
THE ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
COMMITTEE DID NOT AGREE WITH
THAT AND HELPED US CRAFT THE
ENTIRETY OF THE ORIGINAL ZONING
DISTRICT AS IS PRESENTED TO YOU
NOW I THINK PARTIALLY FROM MY
PERCEPTION OF THAT CONVERSATION
WITH THE ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE PARTIALLY
THAT WAS
BASED ON I THINK A DISAGREEMENT
WITH STAFF ABOUT THE NEED TO
MODIFY THAT.
BUT I THINK PARTIALLY WAS
RECOGNIZING WHAT&apos;S STILL START
WITH THE FOR THE FULL AND IF
BASED ON SOME OF THOSE FACTORS
WE WANT TO CONTRACT BASED ON
THAT WE HAVE THAT ABILITY HERE
AT THE TABLE.
SO AS ALEXIS MENTIONED, WE CAN
GO THROUGH MAPS IF THERE ARE
CERTAIN AREAS AND I WOULD SORT
OF TURN TO ALEXIS MAYBE IF WE
COULD JUST TO MAYBE ALEXIS, YOU
COULD GIVE AN EXAMPLE OF SOME
OF THE SPECIFIC GEOGRAPHIES BY
EXAMPLE THAT WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT FROM THAT LENS.
BUT THAT&apos;S AN OVERVIEW MAYBE
ALEXIS COULD SORT OF HIGHLIGHT
SOME OF THOSE AREAS AND THEN
MAYBE AS YOU STARTED WITH THAT
INTRODUCTION, IF ANY OF THE
MEMBERS OF THE NRC WOULD LIKE
TO WEIGH IN ON THEIR
PERSPECTIVE OF THE CONVERSATION
AS WELL.
THAT&apos;S GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I&apos;LL JUMP IN WHILE YOU&apos;RE
CONTEMPLATING SPEAKING UP AT
REITERATE WHAT BRET SAID.
WE FOLLOWING OUR PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT AND FOLLOWING OUR
INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS ARE
IN-PERSON MEETING AT THE
LIBRARY AND OUR WEBINAR MANY
OF THE SAME COMMENTS HEARD
TONIGHT WE&apos;RE RAISED WITH VERY,
VERY SPECIFIC THINGS, THINGS
THAT ARE PARKING CONCERNS
TRANSEPT THAT CONCERNS HATE
VARIABLE HYD IS IT THE RIGHT
NUMBER AND THEN SOME BLOCK BY
BLOCK OR ADDRESS BY ADDRESS.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THE MEETING THE OAKIE
MEETING FOLLOWING OUR PUBLIC
INFORMATION MEETINGS.
SO THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN THE END
OF JUNE STAFF WE RAISED LET&apos;S
TICK THROUGH THESE ISSUES.
THIS IS WHAT WE HEARD IN OUR
ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS AND THE
POINT OF ENGAGEMENT IS TO
LISTEN AND CONSIDER.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S WHAT WE DID.
SO I PREPARED A MEMO THAT THIS
IS WHAT WE HEARD THAT LET&apos;S
SORT OF TAKE THESE OFF, DISCUSS
THEM ONE BY ONE.
ULTIMATELY THE ORSI DECIDED NOT
TO MAKE ANY CHANGES TO THE AT
THAT POINT DRAFT REZONING
PETITION.
BUT THAT&apos;S WHAT WE DID.
&gt;&gt; WE WENT THROUGH SO THERE WAS
A STAFF MEMO THAT SORT
OF SUMMARIZED AND ARTICULATED
SOME OF THE VERY SPECIFIC
COMMENTS THAT WE HEARD FROM OUR
ENGAGE IN A PROCESS THAT&apos;S
MENTIONED IN THE STAFF REPORT.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE DID HEAR FROM TWO
ABOUT TWO PARTICULAR SPOTS IN
PARTICULAR ONE PERSON ASKED FOR
HIS ADDRESS THAT HAS MULTIPLE
UNITS IN IT TO BE REMOVED FROM
C ONE DISTRICT PETITION AND ONE
PERSON ASKED FOR HE AND HIS
NEIGHBOR TO BE ADDED TO IT
ACTUALLY.
&gt;&gt; AND I&apos;VE GOT DETAILS
OF THOSE TWO ADDRESSES IF THE
DISCUSSION GOES THAT WAY, COULD
YOU EXPLAIN A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT WHAT MR. BROUGHT UP ABOUT
THE LOT SIZE OF SOME OF THE
SMALLER PARCELS AND HOW THAT
HOW YOU KIND OF CONSIDERED
THOSE A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENTLY
?
UM, WELL IT WAS PART OF THE
DISCUSSION WAS SHOULD THE LOT
SIZES IN THE STADIUM LABEL
QUARTER YOU KNOW, WE&apos;VE GOT
SOME REALLY BIG ONES WEST GATE
AND PEOPLE VILLAGE ARE PRETTY
BIG PARCELS BUT THE AVERAGE LOT
SIZE IN THE REZONING AREA IS
ABOUT AN ACRE AND THERE&apos;S SOME
THAT ARE MUCH SMALLER IN THE
BELOW 10000 SQUARE FEET AND
IT&apos;S HARD TO REDEVELOP A SITE,
PARTICULARLY A SITE THAT&apos;S
ALREADY BEEN DEVELOPED THAT
THAT SMALL WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
MOST LIKELY IT WILL THE LAST
ASSEMBLY AND ADDING MULTIPLE
PARCELS.
SO WE TALKED ABOUT SHOULD TAKE
ONE DISTRICT ALREADY A LOT WITH
ABOVE AND BELOW TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FEET AND THERE&apos;S THE
DIFFERENCE OF THRESHOLDS WE
TALKED.
SHOULD WE CONSIDER CHANGES TO
THAT?
SHOULD WE SKEW THE DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS DOWN TO ADDRESS THE
FACT THAT WE HAVE A SMALLER
AVERAGE LOT SIZE IN OTHER
CORRIDORS?
IN THE END IT WAS DECIDED THAT
THE DC ONE DISTRICT IS ROBUST
ENOUGH TO ACCOMMODATE THIS
SMALLER AVERAGE BECAUSE ACROSS
THE CITY YOU&apos;RE GOING TO FIND
THAT AVERAGES MIGHT BE
DIFFERENT BUT YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
FIND BIG PARCELS AND SMALL
PARCELS AND IT WAS THE
DISCUSSION CONCLUDED THAT THE
ONE DISTRICT THE SANDERS AS IT
STANDS ARE ROBUST ENOUGH TO
ACCOMMODATE ALMOST ANYTHING WE
CAN THROW AT IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YEAH, PLEASE COMMISSIONER MILLS
OR TO HER OR WHOMEVER FROM THE
I THINK IT I THINK IT WAS THE
TWO THEORIES THAT WERE HERE SO
I WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON THE
POINT JUST LIKE THE PLACE WHERE
AT OR C WE TALKED ABOUT IN
PARTICULAR WITH THESE SMALL
LOTS THE BASKIN ROBBINS LIKE
LITTLE CAESAR&apos;S EVEN THOUGH TWO
OUTSIDE PEOPLE IT LOOKS LIKE
ONE BUILDING THOSE ARE ALL
DIFFERENT LOCKS.
SO THAT&apos;S A CLEAR LIKE THAT WAS
ONE OF THE EXAMPLES.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME ONE OF MY
THOUGHTS AT THAT TIME WAS IT
DOESN&apos;T MAKE A DIFFERENCE HOW
IT&apos;S ZONED REDEVELOPMENT
OF THAT IS GOING TO LIKE YOU
CAN&apos;T REDEVELOP ONE OF THOSE
WITHOUT REDEVELOPING THAT WHOLE
THING ANYWAY JUST BECAUSE
OF THE WAY THE PARKING HAPPENS
THERE SO MUCH THAT WAS AMONG
THE THINGS THAT I RECALL COMING
UP.
I MEAN I THINK IF YOU GUYS
HAVEN&apos;T SEEN THE THE MEMO MIGHT
BE HELPFUL BECAUSE I THINK THAT
STAFF DID A FANTASTIC JOB BUT
LIKE WHAT ARE SOME OTHER IDEAS
?
ONE OF THE THINGS ONE OF THE
OTHER IDEAS IS JUST REZONING A
GOOD PORTION OF THE AREA TO SEE
THREE AND I DON&apos;T ACTUALLY
REMEMBER TALKING ABOUT IS DONE
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I SAW
THAT I DID SEE THE TABLE OF HOW
MANY PARCELS WERE OF WHAT
CLASSIFICATION.
I DON&apos;T THINK INTERNALIZED IT
BUT EVEN MORE SO NOW LIKE
THERE&apos;S A BUNCH THAT&apos;S ALREADY
C THREE SO I&apos;M NOT SURE THAT
FROM MY MIND ACHIEVES KIND
OF THE END AT LEAST IF I PULLED
UP FROM THE STAFF MEMO THE
RIGHT WAY THERE SO LIKE LAID
OUT WHAT IT MIGHT WHAT TO
DISTRICT MIGHT LOOK LIKE AND
HOW IT COULD BE DIFFERENT LIKE
THIS I&apos;M READING VERBATIM NOW
LOWERING THE HEIGHT LIMIT,
INCREASING THE SET BACKS IN THE
CROSSING THE FRONT SET BACKS
COMPARED TO ONE ESTABLISHING
MAXIMUM IF THEY ARE DOING THAT
AND OFFERING PREMIUM REGULATING
THESE LARGE LOTS DIFFERENTLY
THAN THE SMALL LOTS AND I THINK
THAT THE MY I CAN ONLY SPEAK
FOR MYSELF AND AGAIN WE JUST TO
BE CLEAR FOR EVERYONE WHO MIGHT
NOT FOLLOW OUR C WE PROVIDE A
SOUNDING BOARD FOR STAFF TO
COME BACK TO TO BOUNCE THEIR
IDEAS OFF OF WE DON&apos;T MAKE
DECISIONS ON WHAT WE SUGGESTED
WAS THIS SEEMS LIKE THE
CONVERSATION LIKE BEFORE GOING
THROUGH ANY OF THESE WHICH
SEEMED A LITTLE BIT MORE
DETAILED RIGHT.
COMING UP WITH A BRAND NEW
ZONING DISTRICT.
LET&apos;S DISCUSS IT AMONG ALL
OF US.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S MY RECOLLECTION
OF THE CONVERSATION AND THAT
THERE MIGHT BE TWEAKS BUT IT&apos;S
BETTER IF YOU&apos;RE IF THERE IF
STAFF IS HEARING FROM WELL NOW
IT IS SIX VOICES RATHER THAN
THE THREE COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
WERE YOU THERE FOR THAT ONE?
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS IN JUNE.
I CAN&apos;T REMEMBER THAT.
BUT I DO REMEMBER THAT I AFTER
I SAW IT SO I FEEL LIKE I HEARD
I FEEL LIKE I HEARD A BIT
OF WHAT YOU ALL TALKED ABOUT
AND HOW YOU BOUNCE THINGS OFF
AND I HAVE A VERY SPECIFIC
QUESTION.
WHAT YOU FINISH ABOUT HOW WE
LANDED WHERE WE ARE RIGHT NOW
WHICH I THINK WILL BE HELPFUL.
&gt;&gt; SO I WASN&apos;T THERE IN TERMS
OF LIKE WHAT HAPPENED AT THAT
MEETING.
AGAIN, COMMISSIONER SOLVAY IS
TYPICALLY ON THE C SHE HAD TO
SHE RECUSED HERSELF AND
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S I BELIEVE
WAS ALSO THERE BUT SHE&apos;S NOT
HERE TONIGHT SO IT&apos;S UP TO
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
SO I GOT A LITTLE QUESTION TOO
BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S MY
RECOLLECTION IS FROM OUR C TO
PUT IT INTO CONTEXT CORRECT ME
ADD ON AND THEN COMMISSIONER
WHICH IS FROM MY RECOLLECTION
THERE&apos;S NOTHING TO CORRECT.
I THINK WE TALKED WE TALKED A
LOT ABOUT THE SMALL LOTS AND WE
TALKED A LOT ABOUT DOES IT MAKE
SENSE TO TO CREATE A NEW ZONE A
DC TWO BASED ON A LOT OF THESE
THINGS THAT YOU HAD OUTLINED?
&gt;&gt; AND I THINK FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE AT THE TIME JUST
KNOWING THE TIME THAT IT TOOK
TO GET US TO WHERE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW GOING BACK AND DECIDING
WHETHER OR NOT WE NEED AN
ENTIRELY NEW ZONING DISTRICT
NEEDS TO BE LIKE A BROADER
DISCUSSION THAN JUST THE THREE
OF US THAT WERE AT THE TABLE.
OK, THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S HELPFUL ON THE SAME PAGE
SO WE KNOW WHAT&apos;S HAPPENED IN
THE PAST, COMMISSIONER, WHICH
ASKED ONE QUESTION THAT
PERTAINS TO THE CONVERSATION WE
JUST HAD AND IF YOU PERMIT IT
I&apos;D LIKE TO GO ON FROM THERE
SAID OK.
SO MISS DELIO, ARE YOU
COMFORTABLE WITH THE
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE ARE
LOOKING AT AT AN I WOULD HAVE
ADDED ON OR I WISH I WOULD HAVE
MENTIONED AS PART OF THAT
POLICY DISCUSSION MOVING
FORWARD FROM THERE YOU CAN ALSO
DESCRIBE IT AS A STEP AFTER THE
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS.
I DOUBLE CHECKED WITH THE
AUTHORITY TO SAY WE HEARD A LOT
AND WE HEARD A VARIETY
OF OPINIONS.
&gt;&gt; WE HEARD A LOT OF SUPPORT
AND WE HEARD A LOT OF CONCERNS
AND CONCERNS.
SO DO YOU STILL THINK WE&apos;RE ON
THE RIGHT TRACK?
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHY I THINK WE
ARE NOW TONIGHT THE ORACY
PROVIDED MY GUIDANCE.
IT&apos;S HIGH LEVEL GUIDANCE.
THEY ARE NOT A DECISION MAKING
BODY BUT THEY LISTEN TO IT ALL
BUT AND I EVEN I SAID DO YOU
THINK WE&apos;RE ON THE RIGHT TRACK
BECAUSE THERE&apos;S OTHER WAYS WE
CAN GO BUT THERE&apos;S I DO STILL
THINK WE&apos;RE ON TRACK BASED ON
WHAT WE&apos;VE HEARD AND IT IS TIME
TO MOVE FORWARD TO A PUBLIC
HEARING WITH THE ENTIRE
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; SO NOW THAT WE ARE HERE LIKE
I THERE ARE PROS AND CONS TO
EVERY
DECISION THAT YOU CAN
MAKE.
I THINK THERE ARE MORE BENEFITS
THAN COMES TO THIS.
THAT IS NOT TO SAY THERE WAS
NONE BUT I THINK THERE ARE MORE
BENEFITS TO THE COMMUNITY TO
REZONE THE CORRIDOR TO TO SEE
ONE.
AND SO I DO SUPPORT THE
REZONING.
I AM WELCOME TO ANY CHANGES OR
REVISIONS THAT MIGHT BE MADE IF
SOMEONE DISAGREES.
BUT I AM COMFORTABLE WITH WHAT
IS BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
UM SO CAN I CONTINUE SO UM JUST
A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE I JUST WANT TO ADDRESS THE
IDEA THAT WE DON&apos;T READ OR
LISTEN TO FEEDBACK AND
COMMENTS.
I WANT TO SPEAK FOR MYSELF AND
I WOULD LOVE ANY OF THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS TO SPEAK UP.
I READ EVERYTHING THAT COMES TO
ME BECAUSE IT IS I SEE IT AS A
PART OF MY DUTY TO MAKE SURE
THAT I AM TAKING TIME TO HEAR
FROM PEOPLE WHO TAKE TIME IN
THE COMMUNITY TO TELL WHAT THEY
WANT US TO KNOW AND I I JUST
PERSONALLY WANT TO REJECT THE
NOTION THAT THAT DOES NOT
INFORM MY DECISION.
I SEND QUESTIONS TO STAFF TO
GET CLARITY SO THAT WHEN I&apos;M AT
THE TABLE I CAN BE AS INFORMED
AS I POSSIBLY CAN BE WITH MY
COMMENTS AND MY REQUESTS SO
THAT WE CAN GET TO A WIN WIN.
AND AS I WAS THINKING ABOUT THE
ONE I RECOGNIZE THAT THERE ARE
A LOT OF CONCERNS ABOUT THIS
ONE.
IT&apos;S IT FEELS COMPLICATED.
I MEAN JUST IN TERMS OF SORT
OF THINKING ABOUT IT&apos;S LIKE YOU
HAVE A SITE HERE AND NOW ALL
OF A SUDDEN YOU CAN PUT
SOMETHING NEW THERE AND WHAT
DOES THAT MEAN FOR ME?
AND I&apos;VE APPRECIATED THE
OPPORTUNITY TO INTERACT WITH
STAFF AND AS COMMENTS HAVE COME
,I YOU KNOW, I WROTE DOWN
PRETTY MUCH EVERY COMMENT THAT
SOMEONE SHARED TONIGHT AND SO I
JUST I JUST HAVE A COUPLE
CLARIFYING QUESTIONS FOR STAFF
JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY
SORT OF GET ADDRESSED AS WE ARE
IN THIS CONVERSATION.
AND I THINK IF I WERE TO
SUMMARIZE WHAT I HEARD THE
SUMMARY THAT I HEARD WAS THERE
IS CONCERNS ABOUT A THREE
HUNDRED FOOT BUILDING GOING
INTO MY BACKYARD WITH A 40 FOOT
SETBACK AND WHAT I HEARD FROM
THIS DELIO IN HER PRESENTATION
IS THE ONLY PLACE WE WOULD HAVE
A STRUCTURE THAT WOULD REACH
THAT HEIGHT IS NEAR THE
INTERSECTION OF NINETY FOUR THE
EXIT RAMPS.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT IS CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; OF THE TWO HUNDRED AND TEN
BECAUSE I THINK ONLY ABOUT FOUR
YEARS CAN IS FAR ENOUGH AWAY TO
HAVE A THREE HUNDRED FOOT
BUILDING AND THAT SPOT IS
CENTERED WHERE THE BANK
OF AMERICA IS AT ON JACKSON
ROAD AT THE FOUR INTERCHANGE.
&gt;&gt; OK, THE OTHER CONCERN THAT I
HEARD WAS AND IT WAS CONFUSING
TO ME BECAUSE IT WAS ABOUT
PARKING AND THE CONCERN THAT I
HEARD WAS THAT SPECIFICALLY
THAT THE RESIDENT SAID IS THEY
ARE WORRIED ABOUT PARKING AND
THEN I HAD TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND
BECAUSE PART OF WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING IN THE TAXI WANT IS
THAT THE PARKING IS GOING TO BE
REQUIRED.
OF COURSE THERE ARE SOME
MAXIMUMS BASED ON SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF FLOOR AREA AND SOME
PARKING LOTS MAY BE CONVERTED
INTO DEVELOPMENTS.
BUT I THINK THE CONCERN WAS
BECAUSE THERE&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE
AND I&apos;M PUTTING THIS IN QUOTES
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO CAN&apos;T SEE
ON THE CAMERA PARKING INSIDE
THE DISTRICT IT&apos;S GOING TO
CREATE PARKING INSIDE THE
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD AND
I&apos;M I AM ACTUALLY STRUGGLING
WITH THIS BECAUSE I LIVE IN AN
AREA IN OUR CITY WHERE PEOPLE
PARK IN FRONT OF MY HOUSE TO
AVOID PAYING FOR PARKING IN
ORDER TO PARTICIPATE IN
ACTIVITIES AT THE UNIVERSITY
AND WHEN I MOVED THERE I DIDN&apos;T
KNOW THAT AND THEN ALL OF A
SUDDEN ON A SATURDAY MORNING AT
SIX FORTY FIVE THERE WAS
TAILGATING.
THERE WAS FOOTBALL BEING THROWN
AROUND.
THERE WAS LOUD MUSIC, THERE WAS
GRILLING AND I WAS LIKE WELL
THIS I DIDN&apos;T KNOW THAT THIS
WAS A AND I IMMEDIATELY REACHED
OUT TO MY CITY COUNCIL MEMBER
AND SAID WHAT CAN I DO ABOUT
THIS AND AND I HAD SOME
SUGGESTIONS FOR ME WHICH WERE
NOT QUITE HELPFUL.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
HAVE LEARNED IS THAT THAT IS
NOT MY PARKING AREA THAT THAT
BELONGS TO US AS A COLLECTIVE
AND AND SO SO I GUESS I DON&apos;T
KNOW DO YOU HAVE AS AS OUR
PLANNER HERE DO YOU HAVE
THOUGHTS FEEDBACK WAYS
OF ADDRESSING THIS CONCERN THAT
BECAUSE PARKING IS NOT REQUIRED
IN THE ONE DISTRICT THIS IS
GOING TO INCREASE PARKING IN
THE ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD?
&gt;&gt; I KNOW I DEFINITELY SEE THE
CONCERN FOR ABOUT TEN YEARS I
LIVED IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD JUST
LIKE THAT THERE WAS SATURDAYS
FOR SEVEN SATURDAYS.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE INTERESTING TO
THE POINT IT IS A CONCERN AND
IT&apos;S ALWAYS THE UNIMAGINABLE
CAN BE VERY ALSO CONCERNING THE
PARKING IS NOT PROHIBITED IN
THE T7 DISTRICT THERE.
IT STARTED WITH THE DC ONE
DISTRICT NOT REQUIRING PARKING
.
IT&apos;S ALLOWED IT&apos;S ILLEGAL BUT
IT&apos;S NOT REQUIRED AND NOW
THROUGH THE CITY PARKING IS NOT
REQUIRED.
IT&apos;S ENABLED PERMITTED BUT IT&apos;S
NOT REQUIRED IF SOMEONE IF
DEVELOPMENT DOES PROVIDE
PARKING THEN THEY MUST MEET THE
HANDICAPPED BARRIER FREE
PERCENTAGES.
THEY ALSO MUST MEET THE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE READINESS
PERCENTAGES REQUIRED BUT WHAT
THIS DOES IS I FEEL THAT IT
WOULD ALLOW PARKING TO BE MORE
RIGHTSIZED.
THE CITY IS NOT REQUIRING LAND
PARKING BY LAND USE WHAT WE
THINK A DEVELOPMENT IS GOING TO
REQUIRE BUT THE PROJECT PROJECT
BY PROJECT WILL BE ABLE TO
BETTER RIGHT SIZE.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVEN&apos;T EXPERIENCED
DEVELOPERS WANT THEIR PROJECTS
TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
LANDLORDS WANT THEIR TENANTS TO
BE HAPPY AND PROVIDE THE
SERVICES THAT THE TENANTS WANT.
SO WE HAVEN&apos;T REALLY SEEN
PROJECTS WHEN EITHER IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR SAY DOWNTOWN
OR IN OTHER THESE IT&apos;S NOT OUR
WHAT DO YOU CITY YOU DEAL WITH
IT BUT WHAT WE&apos;RE SEEING IS
PARKING IS MORE RIGHTSIZED AND
THAT THERE THERE&apos;S NOT THE
OVERFLOW INTO ADJACENT AREAS
WHETHER THEY BE RESIDENTIAL
AREAS OR COMMERCIAL AREAS.
BUT THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S NOT THE
IT&apos;S NOT THE LACK OF PARKING
FROM A SINGLE LAND USE THAT
MIGHT CAUSE SOME STREET
CONGESTION.
IT&apos;S THE POPULARITY OF A
DISTRICT OR THE POPULARITY OF A
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THAT THAT&apos;S A
SIGN OF A HEALTHY CITY.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S A SIGN OF A HEALTHY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT&apos;S KIND OF A GOOD SIGN AND IN
THE EXTREME THE CITY VANOVER
ALREADY HAS SOME PROGRAMS.
WE HAVE THE RESIDENTIAL PARKING
PERMIT PROGRAMS SO IN THE
EXTREME WE HAVE SOME TOOLS TO
DEAL WITH SIGNIFICANT
NEIGHBORHOOD PARKING PROBLEMS.
BUT I DON&apos;T ANTICIPATE WE&apos;RE
NOT IT&apos;S NOT A DIRECT ALIABADI
AND IT&apos;S ALSO NOT THAT TOMORROW
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE PARKING ON
EVERY STREET.
NOBODY EVER MOVES CAR STORAGE
EVERYWHERE.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND THEN ONE MORE AND
THAT I WILL YIELD AND COME BACK
AROUND AFTER OTHERS HAVE GOTTEN
A CHANCE.
THE OTHER CONCERN THAT I HEARD
AND COMMISSIONER DISH ALSO
ADDRESSED IT IN HER OPENING
COMMENT WAS AROUND THE FACT
THAT IN THE ONE WE ARE NOT
REQUIRING DEVELOPERS TO SET
ASIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
IN ANY FUTURE OR PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT.
AND THE THING THAT I AM
PROCESSING WITH ALL OF THIS IS
AND I THINK COMMISSIONER DID A
GOOD JOB OF SORT OF SUMMARIZING
THE WAYS THAT WE CAN GET TO
AFFORDABILITY.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DO WANT TO COME BACK
TO THE POINT JUST WANT YOU TO
CLARIFY THAT ANY NEW
DEVELOPMENT THAT COMES IN TO
THIS ONE WILL PAY INTO OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
MILLICH THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS
THAT THIS DISTRICT IS GOING TO
CREATE GENERAL TAXES SORRY
THERE IS SOME BASIS THAT CHANGE
THE I DIDN&apos;T HEAR THE WORD OK,
LET&apos;S HAVE YES THEY WILL THEY
WILL PAY BY VIRTUE OF THE
PROPERTIES AND THE DEVELOPMENT
AND THE TAX ASSESSMENT AND THAT
WILL GENERATE REVENUE INTO OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
MILLICH WHICH ARE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMMISSION WILL USE TO
CREATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
AM I CORRECT IN THAT
UNDERSTANDING?
&gt;&gt; CORRECT DO YOU AND THIS IS
JUST EDITORIAL ON YOUR PART SO
FEEL FREE TO PASS IF YOU DON&apos;T
WANT TO ANSWER.
BUT I DID ASK A SIMILAR
QUESTION WHEN WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE GEORGE AND WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE RETAIL AND
THE SENSE OF THE COMMUNITY
EXPECTING IT BUT THERE WAS NO
AGREEMENT.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE YOUR OWN SORT
OF ANSWER AROUND THE
AFFORDABILITY QUESTION THAT
WE&apos;VE HEARD FROM RESIDENTS THIS
EVENING?
WELL, I LISTEN TO FOLKS LIKE
JENNIFER HALL, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE HOUSING
MISSION
SPEAK ABOUT AFFORDABILITY AND
THE AND THEN HOW HARD AND HARD
HOW HARD IT IS TO PULL IT OFF.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S MY OPINION THAT THE NOT
ONLY DO WE HAVE AFFORDABILITY
BUT WE JUST HAVE HOUSING AND I
DO KNOW OTHER PEOPLE HAVE
MENTIONED THAT EVEN TONIGHT
JUST THE MORE HOUSING YOU
PROVIDE IT&apos;S BETTER FOR
EVERYONE EVEN LUXURY HOUSING
HAS SOME EFFECT BECAUSE AS
PEOPLE MOVE AND TAKE AT THAT
LUXURY IT MIGHT OPEN UP
DIFFERENT SPOTS.
BUT JUST I I THINK THE D.C. ONE
DISTRICT IS JUST FOCUSED ON
HOUSING CHOICE AND SO THAT&apos;S
NOT PRECLUDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S TRYING TO
HELP ALL OF OUR NEEDS
AFFORDABILITY PLUS JUST MORE
HOUSING UNITS.
&gt;&gt; IT ALSO IT DOES ADDRESS OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS.
IT HELPS SUPPORT OUR TRANSIT
THE RETAIL LANDSCAPE NATIONWIDE
FOR STRUGGLING LOCAL BUSINESSES
ARE STRUGGLING.
BUT WHAT ABOUT LOCAL BUSINESSES
NEED ARE MORE CUSTOMERS AND I
THINK THAT OVERALL THAT THAT&apos;S
MY THAT&apos;S MY OPINION THAT EVEN
THOUGH AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS
NOT REQUIRED, JUST PLAIN OLD
HOUSING IS A PUBLIC GOOD AND
HOUSING WILL MARGINALLY HELP
AFFORDABLE
COMMISSIONER, THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS HELPFUL.
I&apos;VE GOT A LONG LIST SO I&apos;LL BE
BRIEF TO GIVE OTHER PEOPLE AN
OPPORTUNITY.
&gt;&gt; I JUST THOUGHT I WOULD
ARTICULATE IN ADDITION TO WHAT
COMMISSIONER WHICH WAS JUST
TALKING ABOUT THE CONCERNS THAT
HE HEARD THE CONCERNS THAT I
HEARD BOTH HERE TONIGHT IN THE
WRITTEN MATERIAL BUT ALSO FROM
THE STAFF REPORT THAT WE SAW
AND I WATCHED THE THE PUBLIC
HEARING I WASN&apos;T ABLE TO MAKE
IT TO THE WORK SESSION WHERE
THERE WAS COMMENT PERIOD BUT I
DID WATCH THAT AND I IN MY
THINKING ABOUT WHY SOMETHING
NEEDS TO BE DONE IS THAT I
THINK A LOT OF THE CONCERNS
THAT ARE BROUGHT UP ARE ABOUT
THE CHANGE FROM WHAT&apos;S THERE
NOW TO WHAT PEOPLE ARE
IMAGINING COULD BE.
BUT ACTUALLY A LOT OF THOSE
THINGS ARE ALSO ALLOWED RIGHT
NOW IT&apos;S JUST NOBODY HAS
REDEVELOPED.
SO THAT&apos;S SO LIKE I AM TRYING
TO THINK ABOUT HOW TO WHETHER
IT&apos;S A DRAMATIC CHANGE TO MOVE
TO TAKE ONE FOR EXAMPLE.
&gt;&gt; MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
EXCEPT IN PLACES AND THIS IS
LIKE MYCELIA PLEASE CORRECT ME
MOST OF THE MOST OF THE
PROPERTIES ARE IN DISTRICTS
WHERE HOUSING COULD BE BUILT
RIGHT NOW.
SO THIS IDEA OF LIKE DISPLACING
COMMERCIAL WE ALLOW HOUSING IN
OUR COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS, WE&apos;RE
JUST NOT GETTING IT.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT RIGHT?
YES.
&gt;&gt; THE DC ONE DISTRICT TOOK
ELEMENTS OF EXISTING YOU KNOW,
WE CHERRY PICKED AND WE SORT
OF FRANKENSTEIN A NEW DISTRICT
WITH THE GOOD THINGS ABOUT A
VARIETY OF DISTRICTS AND IT
ALLOWS MIXED USE.
BUT THE C3 IS A MIXED USE
DISTRICT ACTUALLY IT ALLOWS
RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL AND
OFFICE AND ALL OF THE
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS DO THAT
AND SELL THE T U C ONE.
THE PERMITTED USES THE
PERMITTED USES ARE THE ARE THE
SAME.
THE HEIGHT LIMITS ARE ALSO THE
THE LOWER LEVELS OF THE LIMITS
ARE THE SAME AS THE C3
DISTRICT.
THE BIG DIFFERENCE THAT THE BIG
DIFFERENCE IS NOT BETWEEN THE
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OF THE DC
ONE AND SAY THREE THE BIG
DISTRICT DIFFERENCE IS WHAT THE
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT YEAH.
IS COMPARED TO THE MAXIMUM
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OF EITHER
THE CURRENT OR THE PROPOSED.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YOU I WAS GOING TO SAY
THE NEXT THING THAT I HAD ON MY
LIST WAS ABOUT LIKE HEIGHT
RIGHT.
ANOTHER ONE IS COMPARING SET
BACKS SO YES THIS IS A PLACE
WHERE ZERO SETBACKS ARE ALLOWED
BUT IF I READ THE ONE TABLE
RIGHT THE SPECS ARE FROM ZERO
TO FIFTEEN OR ZERO TO TWENTY
FEET WHERE THE SETBACKS FOR
MOST OF THE COMMERCIAL
DISTRICTS ARE TEN TO TWENTY
FIVE.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT LIKE IT&apos;S NOT
GIGANTIC SETBACKS IN THIS PLACE
ANYWAY MY SENSE AND YOU SHOULD
CORRECT ME IF I&apos;M WRONG IS THAT
THERE&apos;S SO MUCH OF THAT AREA
THAT DOES NOT CONFORM TO THAT
SETBACK BECAUSE IT&apos;S GOT ALL
THAT PARKING THAT&apos;S RIGHT IN
FRONT OF IT.
SO CAN PEOPLE COULDN&apos;T REBUILD
THOSE THINGS, RIGHT?
I MEAN YOU TALKED ABOUT THIS A
LITTLE BIT IN TERMS
OF ADDRESSING NONCONFORMITY BUT
IF SOMEBODY REALLY WANTED TO
REDEVELOP A PROPERTY THEY WOULD
HAVE TO THEY COULDN&apos;T REBUILD
IT AS IT IS RIGHT NOW.
I MEAN THERE&apos;S A LOT OF THOSE
BUILDINGS TO HAVE TO MOVE
CLOSER TO THE ROAD THAT THEY&apos;RE
ACTUALLY THERE.
&gt;&gt; A LOT THAT I DIDN&apos;T DO ANY
ACTUAL ANALYSIS BUT ANECDOTAL A
LOT OF THE BIG PERCENTAGE OR
NONCONFORMING STRONG MOST
BUILDERS THE NEW ONE WHERE
CORNER BISTRO WENT PERFECT
EXAMPLE OF SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
OPEN YET BUT THE QUARTER BISTRO
WAS THAT A LITTLE BIT FARTHER
BACK?
I DON&apos;T HAVE AN ACTUAL NUMBER
FOR YOU BUT I KNOW THERE WAS A
COUPLE OF THE PARKING IN FRONT
OF IT AND THE NEW BUILDING THE
LOUIS JEWELERS THEY HAVE IT HAS
PARKING.
IT&apos;S ON THE SIDE OF THE
BUILDING AND THE LEWIS JEWELERS
IS MUCH CLOSER.
IT&apos;S GOT TO IT HAS TO BE
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN TEN AND
TWENTY FIVE FEET FROM.
SO THAT&apos;S A PERFECT EXAMPLE
OF THAT ONE WAS REDEVELOPED ON
STANDARDS IF IT WAS DC ONE
OF THE MAIN DIFFERENCE WOULD BE
IT WOULD BE A TWO STOREY
BUILDING.
THE OTHER ONE WAS GREEN SPACE.
A LOT OF TALK ABOUT GREEN SPACE
AND THIS IS CORRIDOR WITH NOT
VERY MANY TALL TREES.
I THINK THAT IT COULD USE MORE
GREEN SPACE GENERALLY BUT
THERE&apos;S NO OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENTS IN THOSE
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS IF I&apos;M
READING THE TABLE RIGHT.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE IT FOR TO SEE ONE
BUT WE ALSO DON&apos;T HAVE FOR
WHAT&apos;S ALREADY EXISTING THERE.
SO IN TERMS OF LIKE IT IS
DRAMATIC IF YOU&apos;RE IMAGINING
THAT ALL OF THESE PARCELS ARE
REDEVELOPED ACCORDING TO KIND
OF ONE STANDARDS WHICH IS THAT
THEY ARE TWO STOREY BUT IF YOU
ALSO IMAGINE NO CHANGE TO
ZONING AND REDEVELOPMENT, IT&apos;S
GOING TO LOOK SO DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT&apos;S THERE NOW IN MOST
OF THOSE PLACES YOU COULD HAVE
FIFTY FIVE FOOT BUILDINGS RIGHT
UP UP LIKE AGAIN NOT ON ZERO
SETBACKS BUT ON TEN FOOT
SETBACKS FROM THE ROAD LIKE
IT&apos;S QUITE QUITE DIFFERENT.
AND SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT I THINK IT&apos;S I I
HEAR AND ACKNOWLEDGE IT BUT
IT&apos;S A REACTION TO WHAT&apos;S THERE
NOW NOT WHAT THE ZONING FOR THE
LAST DECADE, TWO DECADES, THREE
DECADES HAS ALLOWED FOR AND AND
IN SOME WAYS LIKE WE ARE THERE
IS THE REASON THAT IN MY MIND
REZONING IS IMPORTANT IS TO WE
ARE PROVIDING SOME ADDITIONAL
HEIGHT FOR THE DISTANCES AWAY
FROM FROM RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES AND SOME ADDITIONAL
DENSITY BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T WE
DON&apos;T HAVE THAT SAME KIND
OF F.R. LIMITS THAT WE MAY HAVE
BEEN SOME OF THOSE DISTRICTS
BUT THERE ARE ALSO SOME
LIMITATIONS.
AND SO THIS IS WHY I&apos;M CAUTIOUS
TO ASK TOO MUCH BECAUSE I DO
THINK THAT WE NEED HOUSING.
WE&apos;RE DOING AGAIN HOUSING HAS
BEEN ALLOWED HERE SINCE THE
CREATION IT&apos;S ALLOWED IN THESE
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS BUT WE&apos;RE
NOT GETTING IT.
WE&apos;RE PUTTING LIMITATIONS ON
HOW MUCH PARKING THEY CAN
PROVIDE WHICH IS A GOOD THING
WE ARE ACTUALLY BEING MUCH MORE
FORMULAIC IN THE DESIGN WHICH
IS ALSO A GOOD LIKE I THINK
THAT THEY&apos;RE LIKE THE TOWARDS
COMMUNITY BENEFITS BUT I THINK
THAT THAT&apos;S ALSO A LIMIT.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S TYING
THEM TO THINGS.
THEY HAVE TO GO TO STORIES EVEN
THOUGH WE GOT THE LETTER FROM
EXMOOR MOORE SAYING WE DON&apos;T
WANT TO GO TO STORIES.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHY
I THINK THAT THIS IS A IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S A GOOD TO TRY SOMETHING
NEW BECAUSE THIS HAS BEEN
ALLOWED MUCH OF THIS HAS BEEN
ALLOWED FOR A WHILE AND
NOBODY&apos;S DONE ANYTHING WITH THE
COUPLE EXCEPTIONS OF LEWIS
JEWELERS AND THE REALTOR
BUILDING.
RIGHT.
THERE&apos;S JUST NOT BEEN VERY MUCH
HERE OR WHAT WE HAVE SEEN IS
CAR CENTRIC.
SO THAT&apos;S MY OVERALL SENSE LIKE
I HEAR THE CONCERNS BUT ALSO
IT&apos;S A REACTION TO THE PRESENT
NOT LIKE WHAT IS ACTUALLY
ALLOWED RIGHT NOW IN TERMS
OF ZONING.
THIS IS NOT A DRAMATIC CHANGE
AND ACTUALLY FOR ALL THE PEOPLE
THAT ARE CELEBRATING THIS, I
WOULD SAY THIS IS NOT A HUGE
DRAMATIC CHANGE.
WE&apos;RE JUST TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
IF THERE&apos;S SOMETHING THAT GETS
THIS REDEVELOPED LIKE THAT&apos;S MY
OVERALL SENSE.
I ALSO AM OF THE CAMP THAT LIKE
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO SEE
AN OVERNIGHT CHANGE ACROSS THE
WHOLE CORRIDOR.
I WOULD RATHER THAN WAIT TO
DEVELOP A NEW DISTRICT, I WOULD
LIKE TO REZONE IT BECAUSE WE
CAN ALWAYS TWEAK THIS DISTRICT.
WE OUGHT TO HAVE THE DISTRICT.
WE OUGHT TO TWEAK THE C3 WHEN
WE SAW IT WASN&apos;T GIVING US WHAT
WE WANTED LIKE THAT&apos;S MY SENSE.
&gt;&gt; SO I WOULD SAY LIKE I&apos;M IN
FAVOR OF THEIR SPECIFIC
PROPERTIES THAT I THINK THAT WE
SHOULD TALK ABOUT POTENTIALLY
PEOPLE VILLAGE IS ONE OF THEM
BUT THAT&apos;S THE KEY THING ON MY
LIST AND JUST I HAD A STUDENT
THIS SUMMER WHO WAS WORKING ON
UNDERSTANDING CARBON NEUTRALITY
AND SHE PUT IT TOGETHER A NICE
CALCULATOR AND HOUSES THAT ARE
BUILT ANN ARBOR BECAUSE OF OUR
ACCESS TO TRANSIT AND BECAUSE
THIS IS WHERE THE JOBS ARE
PRODUCED FROM THAT IN TERMS
OF THE DRIVING ABOUT FIFTY
PERCENT LESS EMISSIONS THAN IN
OTHER PLACES.
&gt;&gt; SO LIKE EVEN WE HAVE NO
DIFFERENT STANDARDS THAN ANY
OF OUR NEIGHBORS AND WE KNOW
THAT OUR UNITS TEND TO BE
SMALLER.
PEOPLE WHO LIVE HERE ARE
DRIVING LESS AND I THINK THAT
THAT THERE IS A THERE IS A
BENEFIT IN INCREASING DENSITY,
ESPECIALLY IF IT MEANS THAT
WE&apos;RE ALLOWED WHERE IT ENABLES
US TO FURTHER OUR NON MOTORIZED
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
AND OUR
PUBLIC TRANSIT SYSTEM.
SO I THINK THAT THERE IS A
SUSTAINABLE GOOD IN THIS AND
I&apos;M WITH EVERYTHING THAT
COMMISSIONER SAID IN TERMS
OF LET&apos;S DO THINGS CITYWIDE
LIKE NOT PICK ON A PARTICULAR
DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS I WOULD LIKE TO
WEIGH IN A LITTLE BIT ON
SOMETHING.
ONE IS THAT PART OF ME IS A
LITTLE BIT HESITANT TO DO THE
SAME THING WE DID ON STATE AND
EISENHOWER HERE IN THAT THE
STREET STRUCTURE FEELS REALLY
DIFFERENT TO ME THAN STATE AND
EISENHOWER IN TERMS OF THE
EXPERIENCE OF THE PEDESTRIAN
AND GREEN AND I DON&apos;T I WOULD
LIKE TO KNOW IF YOU ALL
ADDRESSED THIS IN YOUR IN YOUR
DISCUSSIONS BUT IF I LOOK AT
THE RIGHT OF WAY ALONG STATE
AND EISENHOWER THERE IS IT FOR
THE MOST PART A ROBUST GREEN
AREA AND THEN THE SIDEWALK
WHERE YOU CAN PUT LOTS
OF STREET TREES AND THINGS LIKE
THAT AND YOU HAVE PLENTY
OF SIGHT DISTANCE IF YOU&apos;RE
PULLING FORWARD TO BE ABLE TO
SEE PEDESTRIANS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT HERE ON STADIUM IT IS
RIGHT UP AGAINST THE SIDEWALK
AND IT&apos;S THE SIDEWALK AND THEN
THE CURB THERE&apos;S ALMOST THERE
ARE VERY FEW PLACES WHERE
THERE&apos;S GREEN AND IF IT&apos;S THERE
IT&apos;S LIKE ITTY BITTY.
THAT&apos;S WHY ALL THE TREES ARE ON
THE OTHER SIDE.
THE TREES ARE IN BETWEEN THE
BUILDINGS AND THE SIDEWALKS ARE
NOT THEY&apos;RE NOT IN BETWEEN THE
SIDEWALK AND THE ROAD.
&gt;&gt; AND SO MY LIKE IN GENERAL I
FEEL LIKE THAT&apos;S ONE SOMEWHAT
FITS BUT THIS PART FEELS REALLY
DIFFERENT TO ME IN TERMS
OF CHARACTER OF THIS AREA
VERSUS STATE AND EISENHOWER AND
I&apos;M JUST WONDERING IF THERE&apos;S
ANY WAY TO TWEAK THIS SO THAT
IN TERMS OF THE SETBACKS THAT
WE JUST HAVE THE ABILITY TO GET
STREET TREES IN HERE SOMEWHERE
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO HAVE
I MEAN PEOPLE CAN DO WHAT THEY
WANT IN TERMS OF THE ZERO SET
BACK TO 15 OR ZERO SET BACK TO
TWENTY OR WHATEVER.
BUT PEOPLE COULD CHOOSE TO DO
ALL ZERO SETBACKS AND WE HAVE
ZERO STREET TREES THAT WAY.
I MEAN TRULY WE HAVE ZERO
STREET TREES THAT WAY AND
THAT&apos;S VERY DIFFERENT THAN
STATE AND EISENHOWER.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE BIG AREAS OF GREEN
AND AGAIN IT VARIES SOMEWHAT
LIKE A LOT BUT FOR THE MOST
PART THERE&apos;S A REALLY GENEROUS
ZONE IN THERE WHERE YOU COULD
GET SHADE ON THE STREET AND
JUST THAT FEELING OF PROTECTION
OF WALKING ALONG THE STREET AND
THAT&apos;S JUST NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
HERE BECAUSE THERE&apos;S IS NOT
ENOUGH ROOM AND SO I&apos;M JUST
WONDERING IF THERE&apos;S ANY WAY TO
BE ABLE TO TWEAK THIS SO THAT
IT JUST FEELS MORE APPROPRIATE
TO WHAT THE REALITY IS
OF SOMETHING THAT WE JUST
CANNOT CHANGE LIKE CHANGING THE
ROADWAY AND GOING TO HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, I MEAN THAT&apos;S WE
CAN&apos;T DO THAT.
THAT&apos;S TAKINGS.
THAT&apos;S LIKE NOT NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN HERE AND SO WE&apos;RE LEFT
WITH THE GEOMETRY THAT WE HAVE
HERE TO BE ABLE TO WORK WITH
AND AS A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT I
JUST FEEL COMPELLED TO BE ABLE
TO HAVE SOME SORT OF GREEN
ALONG THERE.
AND WHAT I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND IS
WHETHER IF THERE&apos;S WIGGLE ROOM
CAN STILL BE CALLED TO ONE AND
HAVE IT BE DIFFERENT ALONG HERE
OR IS IT MEAN LIKE GOING BACK
THROUGH THE ENTIRE PROCESS AND
IT MEANS IT DOES TAKE TWO OR IS
IT MINUTES TO TAKE ONE OR I
GUESS I STILL FEEL LIKE THERE&apos;S
THINGS TO DISCUSS HERE ABOUT
SORT OF HOW THIS REALLY APPLIES
HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS IF NO
ONE WAS THAT DISCUSSED IT THAT
THE AUDIENCE REVIEW COMMITTEE
OR A STAFF IF YOU ALL HAVE
OPINIONS ABOUT THIS IN TERMS
OF HOW THIS FEELS COMPARED TO
STATE AND EISENHAUER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
&gt;&gt; I REMEMBER WE DID DISCUSS
WHAT IF WE WANTED TO CHANGE THE
BACKS, RIGHT.
YOU REMEMBER THIS?
&gt;&gt; I THINK I THINK I THINK IF
I&apos;M REMEMBERING CORRECTLY WE
DID I MEAN I WAS I HAD SIMILAR
CONCERNS LACK OF GREEN SPACE
BUT I THINK TO WHAT
COMMISSIONER MITCHELL SAID LIKE
I FELT COMFORTABLE I GUESS
MOVING THIS FORWARD AS ONE AND
NOT TRYING TO GO BACK TO A C TO
WHICH I THINK WAS THE
EXPLANATION MYCELIA WAS WE WERE
SORT OF DISCUSSING WHAT IF
THERE ARE DIMENSIONAL CHANGES
THAT WE WANT TO MAKE THE DC ONE
CAN WE DO THAT?
AND I THINK THE ANSWER WAS WHEN
IT KIND OF GETS YOU INTO A
DIFFERENT ZONING DISTRICT TYPE
OF THING.
SO YOU&apos;RE DOING A WEIGH IN ON
THIS ACTUALLY TO MAKE SURE THAT
I&apos;M REMEMBERING CORRECTLY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WELL THAT WAS PART
OF THE MENU OF WHERE DO WE GO?
&gt;&gt; WHAT COULD WE POSSIBLY DO?
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD BE VERY HARD.
IT CAN BE WRITTEN WITH A LOT
OF BOOKS AND EXCEPT FOR US BUT
IT WOULD BE HARD TO PROVIDE
SEVERAL OPTIONS AND STANDARD
WITHIN THE SAME DISTRICT DC ONE
THAT&apos;S WHY YOU HAVE DIFFERENT
ZONING DISTRICTS.
SO IT WOULD TO HAVE TO STEPS UP
FRONT STEP BACK REQUIREMENTS
ENTIRELY SEPARATE SETS
OF REQUIREMENTS IN ONE DISTRICT
MIGHT BE CUMBERSOME PROBABLY
AWKWARDLY WRITTEN.
I THINK IT COULD BE DONE WHERE
THERE&apos;S A WILL THERE&apos;S A WAY WE
DIDN&apos;T AND WE DIDN&apos;T DISCUSS IT
MUCH FURTHER.
I CAN TELL YOU THAT OTHER
DISTRICTS HAVE A MORE MILD
EXCEPTIONS, IF YOU WILL, SO
THEY DON&apos;T OTHER DISTRICTS
DON&apos;T HAVE YOU KNOW WELL WHEN
YOU&apos;RE ON THE WEST, WHEN YOU&apos;RE
ON THE WEST SIDE FOR THIS IS
YOUR SET BACK AND WHEN YOU&apos;RE
ON THE SIDE.
BUT SOME DISTRICTS SAY WHAT
WILL A SETBACK IS ZERO TO 10
ACCEPT WHEN I&apos;M PICKING UP SOME
IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS BUT
THEY SAY EXCEPT WHEN YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE AT LEAST THIS MINIMUM
DIMENSION BETWEEN THE BACK
OF THE BACK OF THE CURB.
SO THAT WOULD BE A MORE MUCH
MORE MILD APPROACH.
SO IT WOULD APPLY TO BOTH THE
THE WEST STADIUM AREA IF WE
ZONE AND THEN IT WOULD APPLY TO
THE STATE STREET AREA SO WE CAN
PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT OF THAT
FLEXIBILITY.
BUT TO HAVE TWO ENTIRELY
SEPARATE FRONT SET BACK
STANDARDS IN THE SAME ZONING
DISTRICT DOES GET EXTREMELY
AWKWARD AND IT&apos;S NOT GREAT
POLICY IS IT WOULD BE A
ALTHOUGH IT WOULD MEAN A WHOLE
OTHER PARTITION.
IT WOULD REQUIRE A TEXT
AMENDMENT.
IT CAN BE DONE BUT WE&apos;D HAVE TO
DO THAT WORK AND THEN SO YOU&apos;D
HAVE TO PICK DO YOU WANT THE
REZONING TO PAUSE WHILE THAT
WORK IS DONE?
DO YOU WANT THE REZONING TO GO
FORWARD AND THEN COME BACK WITH
A TEXT AMENDMENT THAT WOULD YOU
WOULD APPLY OR DO YOU WANT NO
CHANGES BUT THERE&apos;S JUST
PROCEDURAL DECISIONS TO MAKE
SO
SO IS IT POSSIBLE OH NO PLEASE
GO AHEAD, MR. MAYOR.
&gt;&gt; UM SO SPEECHES ARE REQUIRED
FOR DEVELOPMENT SO LIKE LOOK AT
THE ROADWAY HERE AND SO SO ON A
DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT BASIS
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO ANSWER
THE QUESTION ON THAT STANDARD
IN OUR PROVISIONS OR
MODIFICATIONS WE COULD BE
GRANTED SOMETIMES THE SWITCHES
TO BE PLACED ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
UM, I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THOUGH THAT LIKE I DON&apos;T THINK
IT CHANGES YOUR QUESTION THAT
MUCH BUT YOU&apos;RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT STREET TREES.
YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT GREEN
SPACE THE CITY UNLESS IT
CHANGES THE RIGHT OF WAY OR
CHANGES HOW IT USES THAT RIGHT
OF WAY HAS MADE ITS BED IN
REGARDS TO THE POTENTIAL
OF STREET TREES ON STADIUM.
RIGHT.
SO TO BE CLEAR LIKE I THINK
WHAT YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT IS I
JUST WANT TO BE REALISTIC THE
NOTION OF RE ENVISIONING
STADIUM WITH STREET TREES THAT
IS A CITY INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT THAT IS COMPLEX, HARD
LIMITED BY REAL ESTATE.
SO I THINK YOUR QUESTION IS I
GUESS WHAT I&apos;M HEARING
PRACTICALLY IS TO YOU SHOULD
THERE BE GREEN SETBACKS ON
PRIVATE PROPERTY FROM THAT
RIGHT OF WAY?
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANT TO YOU KNOW,
DO HAVE CITY REQUIREMENTS THAT
I WANT I JUST WANT TO BE
REALISTIC.
I THINK WHEN YOU&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT THAT NO MATTER WHAT
HAPPENS, WHAT DECISIONS ARE
MADE WITH THE ONES ZONING
DISTRICTS THAT APPLY TO PRIVATE
PROPERTY THAT IS NOT GOING TO
CHANGE AND CONVERT STADIUM INTO
A TREE STREET TREE LINED IN THE
LAWN EXTENSION BETWEEN THE
SIDEWALK ON THE CURB.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I HEAR WHAT YOU&apos;RE
SAYING AND AND I AGREE THAT
THERE&apos;S LIKE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JUST
GIVEN THE WAY THE UTILITIES ARE
WORKING THROUGH THERE BECAUSE I
ACTUALLY WORKED ON PART
OF STADIUM IN A DIFFERENT PART
AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JUST FULL OF ALL
IT&apos;S VERY DIFFICULT TO BE ABLE
TO PULL THAT OFF.
AND SO YOU&apos;RE RIGHT LIKE WHAT
I&apos;D REALLY BE SAYING IS AND YOU
KNOW, WITH THE ROAD PETITION
THEY WERE ASKING FOR A VARIANCE
TO BE ABLE PUT THEIR STREET
TREES ON THE PROPERTY BECAUSE
FOR WHATEVER REASONS, YOU KNOW,
THAT THEY WERE CHALLENGING.
SO THAT MAY END UP BEING WHAT
WOULD HAVE TO HAPPEN ALONG HERE
IS THAT EVERYBODY HAS TO HAVE A
VARIANCE TO BE PUT THEIR STREET
TREES ON, YOU KNOW, I MEAN TO
BE ABLE TO MAKE IT WORK
PRACTICALLY IN TERMS OF ALL THE
CONFLICTS THAT ARE THERE.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU&apos;RE RIGHT.
WHAT I&apos;M REALLY SAYING IS I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE TREES ALONG
STADIUM WHETHER THEY ARE
CATEGORIZED AS STREET TREES OR
WHETHER THEY&apos;RE CATEGORIZED AS
,YOU KNOW, WHATEVER RIGHT
OF WAY SCREENING OR WHATEVER WE
WOULD CALL IT
.
I WOULD BE ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
HAVING SOME SORT OF GREEN
SOMETHING IN THERE SINCE WE
HAVE REALLY BACKED OURSELVES
INTO A CORNER ON STADIUM IN
TERMS OF HAVING ANY KIND
OF MEANINGFUL STREET TREES IN
THERE BECAUSE I MEAN THERE&apos;S
LESS SIDEWALK THERE THAN THERE
IS AND A LOT OF THE DOWNTOWN
STREETS YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE WHERE
WE ARE WE HAVE, YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE THAT YOU KNOW, SITTING
ON CAFES, THINGS LIKE THAT.
IT&apos;S LIKE WE DON&apos;T LIKE THE
SIDEWALK HERE IS IS SMALLER
THAN A LOT OF THE AREAS THAT WE
EVEN HAVE DOWNTOWN.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS WHAT I&apos;M
QUESTIONING IN SOME WAYS AND
MAYBE THIS IS YOU KNOW, MAYBE
IT MAKES MAYBE I&apos;M TALKING
MYSELF INTO DOES ALL OF TUQAY
ONE NEED TO HAVE A ZERO LIKE
SHOULD WE SHOULD WE NOT HAVE A
ZERO SET BACK LINE FOR ONE PART
OF WHAT I&apos;M ASKING LIKE IS IT
SO TERRIBLE TO HAVE SOME SOME
SPACE BETWEEN THE SIDEWALK AND
THE ROAD ESPECIALLY GIVEN
SPEEDS OF THESE THINGS WHICH IS
REALLY DIFFERENT THAN DOWNTOWN
AND LOTS OF PEDESTRIANS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT?
DOES IT MAKE MORE SENSE TO HAVE
THERE BE SOME SORT OF BROAD PC?
&gt;&gt; ONE THING THAT APPLIES TO
BOTH DISTRICTS AND I REALIZE
THIS IS WORK AND YOU KNOW I GET
IT BUT YOU KNOW, JUST IN TERMS
OF SAFETY AND WE&apos;RE TRYING TO
MAKE THIS EASIER FOR PEOPLE TO
BE ABLE TO BIKE AND WALK AND
ALL THOSE THINGS AND HAVING
BUILDINGS RIGHT ON THE PROPERTY
LINE, IT MAKES IT HARD.
IT TRULY DOES.
IT DOES.
I MEAN JUST THE REALITY OF HOW
FAR FORWARD YOU HAVE TO PULL TO
BE ABLE TO SEE YOU HAVE TO BE
IN THE SIDEWALK LANE, YOU KNOW
THE CROSSING IN ORDER TO BE
ABLE TO SEE SO DOES DOES IT
MAKE MORE SENSE TO HAVE THERE
BE KIND OF A GAP IN THE TOP ONE
IN GENERAL SHOULD THIS APPLY TO
STATE AND IS WHICH DOESN&apos;T NEED
IT AS BADLY IN TERMS OF THE
AMOUNT OF SPACE IS THERE BUT
MAYBE THAT&apos;S A DIFFERENT WAY TO
HANDLE IT RATHER THAN WHAT
YOU&apos;RE SAYING, MR. LEO, WHICH
IS YOU KNOW, WE CAN&apos;T REALLY
HAVE A TIER ONE STADIUM AND A
ONE STADIUM EISENHOWER IT GETS
CLUNKY AND DIFFICULT.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS I&apos;M JUST PUTTING
THAT OUT THERE.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T WANT TO BE THE
ONE TO LIKE STOP THE TRAIN
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THIS TRAIN
IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I ALSO LIKE I DON&apos;T WANT
TO DO SOMETHING THAT I FEEL
LIKE ISN&apos;T GOOD DESIGN EITHER
THOUGHT I MEAN IF WE&apos;RE GOING
TO HAVE TO CHANGE IT ANYWAY,
YOU KNOW, I DON&apos;T KNOW MY MY
OPINION IS THAT I&apos;M
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH HAVING
BUILDINGS ZERO THAT BACK LINE
ON STADIUM THAT JUST FEELS TO
IT DOESN&apos;T FEEL SAFE TO ME IN
TERMS OF PEDESTRIANS COMING
BACK AND FORTH AND CARS PULLING
IN AND OUT AND SO MANY OF THESE
THINGS NOW HAVE THE WHOLE
STADIUM DEVELOPMENT ALONG HERE
HAS THE IN AND OUT TO CURB CUTS
FOR EACH DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S THE WAY THAT IT&apos;S
BEEN DEVELOPED OVER TIME HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S A TON THERE&apos;S A
TON OF THEM AND FRANKLY THAT&apos;S
WHAT FIRE REQUIRES US A LOT NOW
ANYWAY IS TO BE ABLE TO PULL IN
AND PULL OUT AND SO IT WOULD
LIKELY STAY BASED ON OUR FIRE
SAFETY STANDARDS.
SO ANYWAY, I&apos;M PUTTING THAT
CONUNDRUM OUT THERE AND I GUESS
A PART OF ME FEELS A LITTLE
FUNNY ABOUT LIKE I GUESS I WAS
ENVISIONING THAT OUR NEXT
DISCUSSION ABOUT THIS ONE WOULD
BE LIKE US DISCUSSING IT NOT
NECESSARILY WE&apos;RE VOTING ON IT
OR NOT.
&gt;&gt; IT FEELS A LITTLE I DON&apos;T
KNOW I FEEL A LITTLE LIKE LEFT
OUT OF WHATEVER THE DISCUSSION
WAS THAT WE KIND OF HAD THIS
ONE SHOT AT IT A COUPLE
OF MONTHS AGO AND MAYBE I
SHOULD HAVE ATTENDED THE
ORDNANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE&apos;S
MEETING BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I FEEL LIKE THERE&apos;S STILL
THINGS TO KIND OF WORK THROUGH
I GUESS GO SO I MEAN IT&apos;S
COVERED .
I JUST I JUST WANT TO IF I
COULD REITERATE SO THIS THIS
REZONING IS YOURS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS COMMUNICATED TO
THE COUNCIL AND INSTRUCTED ME
AND MY TEAM TO START CITY
INITIATED REZONING TO TAKE ONE
AND YOU COMMUNICATED THAT WE
WERE GOING TO DO IT IN STATE
AND EISENHOWER AND THEN WE&apos;RE
GOING TO THAT STADIUM AND THEN
WE&apos;RE GOING TO LOOK AT
WASHTENAW AND THEN PLIMOTH IF I
WERE HAVE THAT ORDER RIGHT.
UM AND SO THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A
FAIR AMOUNT OF DISCUSSION THAT
ABOUT WHAT TRANSPIRED AT THE
NRC AND I JUST WANT TO
REITERATE IT&apos;S BEEN SAID BUT
THE NRC I JUST TO TELL YOU HOW
WE USE THAT HOW I USE IT WE USE
THAT AS A WORK SESSION, A
SOUNDING BOARD OF YOUR
COLLEAGUES TO HELP US CRAFT
HOPEFULLY A BETTER PRODUCT FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
AND SO THAT&apos;S AS AS
COMMISSIONER MILLS INDICATED
THAT THEY DON&apos;T MAKE A
DECISION.
WE PRESENTED SOME QUESTIONS.
WE PRESENTED I THINK SOME WE
PRESENTED SOME CHALLENGES TO
THAT NRC AND I&apos;LL CONFESS TO
THE THAT IN RETROSPECT I WE
PRESENTED SOME OF THOSE
CHALLENGES IN A WAY THAT I FELT
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH AFTERWARDS
THAT WE OFFERED THEM BECAUSE
THIS WAS YOUR PETITION.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT YOU
DIRECTED US TO DO.
BUT I WANT TO BE CLEAR TO YOUR
QUESTION ABOUT YOU AS A PUBLIC
HEARING THAT IS EXACTLY THE
NATURE I THINK OF WHAT THE NRC
WAS SAYING, WHAT I HEARD FROM
THEM IS NO ONE SEEMS
APPROPRIATE TO PUT FORTH A
PUBLIC HEARING TO SOLICIT
COMMENT AND FEEDBACK AND TO
MAKE A DETERMINATION IF IT
FEELS RIGHT.
SO I DON&apos;T WANT TO PUT WORDS IN
THE MOUTHS OF THOSE
COMMISSIONERS, BUT I THINK PART
OF THAT CONVERSATION WAS THIS
IS MOVING FORWARD AND NOW IT&apos;S
TIME TO HAVE THAT TEST BEFORE
COMMISSION AND THE PUBLIC AND I
THINK I I THINK THAT THERE WAS
LEGITIMATE INTEREST IN MAKING
SURE WE&apos;RE STARTING WITH SORT
OF THE MOST EXPANSIVE GEOGRAPHY
THAT WE ENVISIONED WITH THE
DISTRICT AS IT IS TO START THIS
CONVERSATION.
SO AGAIN, I DON&apos;T SPEAK FOR ANY
COMMISSIONERS BUT THIS IS
ABSOLUTELY THE TIME TO SAY WE
NEED MORE INFORMATION OR WE
HAVE MORE QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS.
I DON&apos;T WANT YOU TO FEEL LIKE
BECAUSE A PUBLIC HEARING IS
SCHEDULED THAT YOU ARE UNDER A
TIME CRUNCH YOU SOME
COMMISSIONERS HAVE EXPRESSED AN
INTEREST IN MOVING ON THIS.
YOU&apos;VE HEARD FROM MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC.
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR THAT THAT THAT
IS THE THAT IS THE POLICY
MAKING PROCESS THAT WE ARE
UNDER RIGHT NOW.
THAT&apos;S THE PURPOSE OF THIS.
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS, IF THERE
ARE TWEAKS, THAT&apos;S WHERE YOU
WILL SEND US BACK TO SAY THESE
ARE AREAS THAT WE WOULD LIKE
FURTHER AND FOR INFORMATION ON
THESE ARE AREAS WE&apos;D LIKE
FURTHER OPTIONS ON.
THESE ARE GEOGRAPHIES WE&apos;D LIKE
TO LOOK AT DIFFERENTLY.
SO I WOULD JUST SAY THAT FOR
THE FOR THE PURPOSE OF YOU AS
THE COMMISSION WANT TO GET THIS
AS GOOD AS POSSIBLE, NOT AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
THANKS COMMISSIONER KRECH.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MENTION I
THINK WITH THE BUILDING SET
BACK THERE&apos;S SOMETHING TO BE
SAID WITH ESPECIALLY SINCE
WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE HAVING THESE
BIT DENSER CORRIDORS THAT AS
SOON AS WE START MOVING THE SET
BACKS FURTHER BACK IT CREATES A
WIDER APPEARANCE THE ROAD AND
THERE&apos;S QUITE A BIT OF RESEARCH
ON HOW NARROW REPAIRING ROADS
ARE ACTUALLY SAFER AND REDUCE
SPEEDS BECAUSE I THINK WE&apos;LL
KIND OF RUN INTO A BIT OF A
TRAP HERE IF WE START
RECONSIDERING THE SETBACK AND
THEN THE ROAD STARTS GETTING
WIDER AND THAT IT KIND
OF ENCOURAGES VEHICULAR TRAFFIC
BEING A CENTER TO THE ENTIRE
CORRIDOR.
AND I JUST WANT TO BE CAREFUL
THAT WE DON&apos;T FALL INTO THAT
ESPECIALLY YOU LIKE STREET
TREES ALSO ARE OBSTRUCTING
VISION AND THEY&apos;RE ALSO A GOOD
TRAFFIC CALMING METHOD.
AND SO IF WE&apos;RE NOT HAVING A
LOT OF STREET TREES THERE,
THERE&apos;S HAVING WIDE OPEN VISUAL
CUE SIGHT LINES FOR DRIVERS IS
KIND OF A TRICKY POINT THAT I
THINK HAS BEEN KIND OF THERE&apos;S
A LOT OF RESEARCH OUT THERE I&apos;M
NOT ENTIRELY SURE THAT WE NEED
TO REVISIT THE SET BACK BUT
THAT&apos;S ALL I CAN SAY.
YEAH, I THINK MY I HEAR YOUR
CONCERN AND APPRECIATE YOUR
PERSPECTIVE.
I THINK THE THING THAT STRUCK
ME WAS, UH I WONDER IF WE COULD
ACCOMPLISH WHAT YOU ARE
ARTICULATING THROUGH A ROAD
DIET AS OPPOSED TO A SETBACK
BECAUSE I PERSONALLY UH MR.
LEONARD JUST HAD A VERY LOVELY
COMMENT ABOUT HAVE TO DO THINGS
FAST.
WE COULD DO IT AT OUR TIME.
&gt;&gt; AND I WAS I THINK I
ADVOCATED THAT WE DO ALL OF THE
ONES AT THE SAME TIME AND I WAS
TOLD THAT IT WOULD TAKE UP ALL
THE STAFF TIME TO DO ALL OF THE
ONES AT THE SAME TIME AND SO WE
WERE GOING TO DO THEM BY
CORRIDOR.
SO THIS FILLS AT THE I MEAN
HONESTLY IT FEELS AT THE RIGHT
PLACE IT THERE&apos;S BEEN LOTS
OF FEEDBACK I SAW A PUBLIC
HEARING AT THE WESTGATE
LIBRARY.
I&apos;VE READ EVERY SINGLE COMMENT
THAT HAS COME IN AND QUITE
HONESTLY I EXPECTED TO HEAR
MORE NEGATIVE COMMENTS THAN I
DID.
I&apos;VE BEEN RUNNING A TALLY I
DIDN&apos;T ACTUALLY HEAR LIKE A
MAJORITY OF THE COMMENTS BEING
NEGATIVE THERE.
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS A TIME WHERE I&apos;M
LIKE OH WELL RESIDENTS ARE
ACTUALLY PAYING ATTENTION TO
THIS IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
THERE&apos;S NOT JUST ONE GROUP
OF PEOPLE THAT WE CONSTANTLY
HEAR FROM WHO MIGHT NOT AGREE
WITH SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
BUT THERE&apos;S A WIDE SECTION
OF PEOPLE INCLUDING PEOPLE AND
THE RESIDENTS WHO ARE LIKE HEY,
THIS LOOKS GOOD.
I DO WANT TO GET TO THE
MATRAVILLE THE MAPLE VILLAGE
BECAUSE YOU BROUGHT THAT UP
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND MR. LEO
DID AS WELL.
BUT I THINK IN TERMS OF WHAT I
HEAR YOU ASKING FOR
COMMISSIONER RANDALL, I WONDER
IF THE ZONING CAN STAY IN PLACE
BUT WE LOOK AT ADDRESSING THE
CONCERNS THAT YOU ARE
ARTICULATING THROUGH A
DIFFERENT TOOL AND THAT TOOL
MIGHT BE A ROAD DIET OR TRAFFIC
ISLANDS ALONG THAT ROAD IF WE
COULDN&apos;T GET IT AS A ROAD DIET
WHERE WE&apos;RE PUTTING IN
GREEN
SPACES ALONG THAT SPACE.
IT IS A VERY DANGEROUS CONTRARY
TO THE FEEDBACK THAT WE HEARD
TONIGHT ABOUT I WALK IN THIS
AREA, I AVOID THIS AREA.
THIS IS ONE AREA OF OUR CITY
WHICH I LOVE THAT I AVOID IF I
DON&apos;T HAVE TO GO ON THAT SIDE
OF TOWN I DO NOT GO ON THAT
PART OF TOWN.
&gt;&gt; IT IS JUST IT JUST IT ONE
COLOR COMMENT IT LIKE IT&apos;S CAR
LAND AND FOR ME IT JUST
INCREASES THE ANXIETY AND IT&apos;S
THAT WHOLE SCANNING THING THAT
YOU&apos;RE DOING WHEN YOU&apos;RE BIKING
LIKE YOU JUST DON&apos;T KNOW AT
WHAT MOMENT SOMEONE&apos;S GOING TO
POP UP TO YOU OR CLIP YOU OR
WHATEVER AND YOU&apos;RE JUST YOU&apos;RE
NOT RELAXED.
YOU&apos;RE JUST CONSTANTLY IN YOUR
REPTILE BRAIN TRYING TO STAY
ALIVE.
THAT&apos;S WHAT I FEEL WHEN I GO
THROUGH THAT.
SO I I DON&apos;T WANT TO DISMISS
WHAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING AND I LOOK
THROUGH THE GOOGLE MAP UP
STADIUM AS WELL AS PEOPLE AND A
LOT OF THINGS ARE ALREADY SET
BACK WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT IT&apos;S
ALL WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD WHICH IS
JUST THE PARKING LOT COMES
STRAIGHT TO THE SIDEWALK,
EVERYTHING IS SET BACK AND THE
PAINTING STORE I THINK THE
PAINTING STORE, THE SUBWAY AND
THE PLANNED PARENTHOOD ARE THE
ONLY THINGS THAT COME STRAIGHT
TO THE SIDEWALK.
BUT EVERYTHING ELSE THERE&apos;S
GREEN, THERE&apos;S A SIDEWALK AND
IT&apos;S A SETBACK.
SO I WONDER IF WE CAN GET
CLOSER TO WHAT YOU WANT THROUGH
A DIFFERENT TOOL AS OPPOSED TO
SENDING THIS BACK, CHANGING THE
SET BACK THEN HAVING TO CHANGE
THE SET BACKS IN A ZONE THAT
WE&apos;VE ALREADY CREATED AND THEN
HAVE TO REWORK THAT AGAIN
BECAUSE YEAH, I I WOULD BE VERY
SURPRISED IF WE COULD RODAY AT
THIS ROAD A WHOLE LOT MORE THAN
IT ALREADY HAS BEEN BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S ALREADY BIKE LANES ON
IT.
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S LIKE WE ONLY
HAVE SO MUCH RIGHT OF WAY HERE
JUST IN TERMS OF MY OWN
EXPERIENCE WITH DESIGN I THINK
IT WOULD BE PRETTY TRICKY TO BE
ABLE TO PULL THAT OFF IN ONE
STADIUM WAS REDONE ABOUT MAYBE
TEN OR TWELVE YEARS AGO.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS GIVEN A ROAD IN A
PLACE WHERE IT MADE SENSE OVER
NEAR THE INTERSECTION OF 7TH
AND STADIUM AND THEN IT WIDENED
OUT AGAIN WHERE IT AND THAT&apos;S
WHEN THE BIKE LANES WERE PUT IN
AND ALL THAT SORT OF THING.
NOW YOU KNOW THAT&apos;S MADE WITH
ASSUMPTIONS BASED ON CAR SPEED
AND BLAH BLAH BLAH AND YOU
KNOW, YOU HAVE DIFFERENT
STANDARDS FOR ENGINEERS IN
TERMS OF HOW WE THINK ABOUT
THESE AREAS.
&gt;&gt; BUT I I DO WORRY STILL A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE SETBACK
THING AND I&apos;M JUST GOING TO SAY
THIS BECAUSE IF YOU THINK ABOUT
DOWNTOWN AND YOU THINK ABOUT IF
YOU&apos;RE ON THE SIDEWALK AND YOU
HAVE THOSE ALLEYS COMING OUT
THAT&apos;S WHAT IT&apos;S LIKE PEOPLE
WHEN YOU&apos;RE AT A ROAD DOWNTOWN
YOU HAVE ALL KINDS OF CITIZENS
AROUND YOU BECAUSE OF THE
SIDEWALKS.
BUT THINK ABOUT THE ALLEYS.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT IT&apos;S LIKE COMING
UP TO ZERO SETBACK.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT IT&apos;S LIKE.
SO THAT&apos;S PRETTY DIFFICULT TO
PULL OFF ON STATE AND THERE&apos;S
NO STADIUM.
&gt;&gt; I THINK I&apos;M I&apos;M KIND
OF UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THE ZERO
SETBACK THING.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY AM.
I THINK THAT LIKE I GET IT THAT
WE WANT TO FEEL URBAN BUT I
THINK IF WE CAN FIGURE OUT A
DIFFERENT WAY OF QUEUING LIKE
WHAT COMMISSIONER CLARK IS
SAYING THAT THERE ARE WAYS TO
DO THAT BESIDES JUST THE
BUILDING LIKE STREET TREES CAN
BE THIS FOR YOU TO LIKE IT
REALLY CAN AND I DON&apos;T WANT THE
BUILDINGS 40 FEET.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT I&apos;M SAYING.
BUT CAN WE HAVE A GAP THAT
ALLOWS SOME SORT OF CUE WHETHER
IT&apos;S TREES OR YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER?
&gt;&gt; I JUST REMEMBER WORKING IN
THIS AREA AND IT IS JUST FULL
OF UTILITIES LIKE IT&apos;S GOING TO
BE REALLY HARD TO BE ABLE TO
PUT ANY STREET TREES IN THAT
CORRIDOR.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHY WHEN THEY
IMPROVED THEY JUST PUT IN
STREET LAMPS.
THAT&apos;S WHAT THEY DID TO KIND
OF GIVE A FRAME WAS THAT
BECAUSE THEY COULDN&apos;T PULL OFF
THE TREES?
I DID THE TREES IN AREAS WHERE
WHERE YOU COULD PULL OFF AND
THAT&apos;S WAY FURTHER TO THE
SOUTH.
SO IT&apos;S JUST TRICKY TO BE ABLE
TO DO THIS STUFF.
&gt;&gt; AND SO AGAIN, LIKE THE TRUE
YOU KNOW, LIKE I ALSO DID THE
BUILDING A SIX MINUTE BUILDING
IS SEVEN AND A HALF FEET BACK
FROM THE BACK OF THE SIDEWALK
AND IT&apos;S STILL HARD THERE TO BE
ABLE TO PULL FORWARD ON MOSLEY
AND REALLY SEE WHAT&apos;S GOING ON.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S LIKE I&apos;M JUST TALKING
ABOUT THE REALITY OF LIKE WHAT
IT TRULY FEELS LIKE AND IT&apos;S
JUST SOMETHING THAT I DEAL WITH
IN TERMS OF MY PROFESSIONAL
WORK OF WHAT IT LIKE AROUND
ZINE AND SO I&apos;M AND I PROBABLY
SHOULD HAVE SPOKEN UP SOONER
WITH STATE AND OUR THING
BECAUSE I JUST I DON&apos;T KNOW
THAT IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO HAVE
THE ZERO THERE GIVEN THE SPEEDS
THAT WE HAVE.
THEY&apos;RE NOT TWENTY FIVE MILES
ARE LIKE THEY ARE DOWNTOWN.
THEY&apos;RE NOT AND THERE&apos;S JUST
MORE VOLUME AND THINGS LIKE
THAT WITH THE HIGHWAYS AND
STUFF LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T KNOW I&apos;M I&apos;M
STRUGGLING WITH THIS I GUESS IS
WHAT I&apos;M SAYING AND THERE&apos;S A
VERSION THAT I COULD SEE WHERE
WE PASS IT BUT THEN WE GO BACK
.
&gt;&gt; BUT I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO
GO BACK TO DO IT BECAUSE I FEEL
LIKE I FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S IMPORTANT
BASED ON THE CONTEXT OF WHAT WE
ARE DEALING WITH HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE NOT DOING DOWNTOWN
WHERE WE HAVE THESE MUCH LOWER
SPEEDS AND HIGH EXPECTATION
OF LOTS OF PEOPLE WALKING
AROUND.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S JUST A DIFFERENT IT&apos;S
WHERE WE WANT IT TO GROW
TOWARDS THAT BUT IT&apos;S PROBABLY
NEVER GOING TO BE THE DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWN IN TERMS OF HOW THAT&apos;S
EXPERIENCED, I THINK BECAUSE IT
JUST HAS ACCESS TO HIGHWAYS AND
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S JUST HIGHER
VOLUME I THINK THAN THAN WHAT
THE DOWNTOWN IS.
PEOPLE DON&apos;T SHOP IN THE
DOWNTOWN THE SAME WAY THAT THEY
SHOP IN THESE AREAS AND I THINK
WE WANT THEM WE WANT THOSE
RETAIL PLACES TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S WHERE I AM FOR
THINGS.
I&apos;M A LITTLE MUDDLED ABOUT THIS
SO I&apos;M JUST BEING REAL WITH
Y&apos;ALL ABOUT WHAT WHERE I AM
WITH IT.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS,
COMMISSIONER I SEE YOUR HAND TO
MINE IS YOURS ON THIS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
GO FOR IT.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY SO MY
POINT ABOUT STREET TREES WASN&apos;T
THAT MAYBE THE MAIN STREET
TREES OR OTHER METHODS IS MORE
THE IN LIEU OF TREES THAT A
BUILDING TAKES THE EMPHASIS OFF
THE ROAD ONTO THE BUILDINGS
WALKABILITY LIKE YOU KNOW, I&apos;VE
NEVER BEEN TO A PLACE THAT&apos;S
WALKABLE THAT HAS THE BUILDINGS
SET FOR THEIR BACK AND I JUST
THINK WE&apos;RE GOING TO GET INTO A
TRAP WHERE IF WE TRY AND RELY
ON OTHER TRAFFIC CALMING
MEASURES OR WE PUT THAT IN
THERE THE THE BUILDING THAT
STAYING FURTHER BACK, THAT&apos;S A
REALLY LONG TERM DECISION WE
WILL NEVER GET TO LOWER SPEEDS.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE LIKE BUILDING
OURSELVES INTO FASTER ROADS.
SO THE TREES THE STREET TREE IS
NOT BEING PRESENT.
YOU KNOW, THEY ALSO OBSTRUCT
THE VISUAL YOU KNOW, THE
VISUALS LIKE LIGHT SO THE SITE
SO BASICALLY WHAT MY POINT IS
THAT THE TREES NOT BEING THERE,
BEING THERE PRETTY MUCH THE
SAME THING OR A LESS EFFECTIVE
VERSION OF THE BUILDINGS BEING
RIGHT UP TO THE ROAD AND SORRY
IT&apos;S LATE I WAS KIND OF MUDDLED
BY I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY
THAT I WASN&apos;T SAYING THAT OTHER
METHODS SHOULD BE USED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S JUST THAT THE BUILDINGS
ARE EFFECTIVE IN SLOWING
TRAFFIC AND I HEAR YOU ABOUT
THAT.
I GET THAT I THINK THERE ARE
PLACES IN VANCOUVER WHERE THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE LIKE SET BACKS
OF GREEN THAT ARE HIGHLY
LANDSCAPE THAT ARE QUITE
BEAUTIFUL THAT MAKE IT SO THAT
YOU CAN HAVE THESE REALLY TALL
BUILDINGS AND THEN YOU HAVE
LIKE A ZONE THAT IS HIGHLY
LANDSCAPED IN BETWEEN THE
BUILDING AND THE ROAD WHICH
WOULD BE LOVELY, YOU KNOW.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S ALSO IS HOW WE
ACCEPT IT WHICH IS LIKE IT&apos;S
NOT I MEAN THERE&apos;S A BUNCH
OF THESE PROPERTIES THEY HAVE
ZERO TREES.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S THE OTHER THING
IS THAT A LOT OF THEM ARE JUST
TREE LESS THEY&apos;RE JUST A LAWN
AREA AND WHO ONE THAT&apos;S
POINTLESS IN MY MIND.
SO ANYWAY, COMMISSIONER, MOVE
ON THIS BECAUSE I FEEL YOU I
MEAN I SAY LOOK AS A CYCLIST
THE ZERO LINE DOESN&apos;T AFFECT ME
AS MUCH BUT WHENEVER I MEAN I
IF I DRIVE IT&apos;S DOWNTOWN
BECAUSE I LIVE ON THE EDGE
OF TOWN.
RIGHT.
AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S CHALLENGING AS A
DRIVER TO PULL OUT OF A PLACE
WHERE THE BUILDING ENDS AT THE
SIDEWALK.
IT&apos;S SCARY AS A PEDESTRIAN ON
THE SIDEWALK ESPECIALLY WITH
SMALL CHILDREN LIKE SO I SO I
HEAR YOU WHAT I ALSO HEAR
THOUGH IS THAT WHAT YOU SHOULD
CORRECT ME I&apos;M NOT HEARING YOU
SAY RIGHT NOW IT&apos;S ZERO TO
FIFTEEN OR ZERO TO TWENTY AND
I&apos;M NOT HEARING YOU SAY CHANGE
THAT FIFTEEN TWENTY I&apos;M HEARING
YOU SAY MAYBE NOT HAVE IT A
ZERO OR HAVE I REALLY LIKE WHAT
THE SUGGESTION WAS EARLIER
WHICH IS IF THIS IS NOT YOUR
SITUATION IF YOU DON&apos;T HAVE A
GIGANTIC I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T KNOW
WHAT NAME IS IF YOU DON&apos;T IF
THAT SIDEWALK SIDEWALK
EXTENSION ISN&apos;T BIG THEN YOU
CAN&apos;T DO ZERO LIKE AND THIS IS
THE THING THAT TAILORS IT TO
ALL OF THE PLACES BUT IT STILL
DOESN&apos;T WHAT I&apos;M WHAT I WANT TO
BE CLEAR ABOUT I WOULD BE COOL
WITH THAT AND I THINK TAKING
THAT TO OTHER QUARTERS ALLOWS
THIS TO BE MORE ADAPTABLE.
I&apos;LL BE SAYING I&apos;LL BE HONEST I
DON&apos;T I WOULDN&apos;T BE COOL WITH
EXTENDING THE MAXIMUM SET BACK
DISTANCE LIKE I WANT TO KEEP IT
AT FIFTEEN AND ACTUALLY THAT IS
THAT IS STILL MOVING US CLOSER
BUT IT&apos;S NOT RIDICULOUSLY
CLOSER.
IT&apos;S IN THE REALM OF WHERE
WE&apos;RE EXPECTING C ONE, TWO AND
THREE TO BE BUILT ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; SO LIKE I&apos;M I&apos;LL JUST SAY
LIKE IF I HAD TO DO SOMETHING
RIGHT NOW I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH OWNING THIS BUT I
WOULD QUICKLY FOLLOWED UP WITH
THAT.
WHAT I SEE IS A RELATIVELY
SMALL TEXT AMENDMENT THAT GIVES
MORE FLEXIBILITY ON THAT ZERO
AND MAYBE TIES IT TO HOW BIG
THAT CURB IS NOW.
AND JUST TO SAY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT AND I WERE LIKE
WHEN YOU SAID SOMETHING ABOUT
THE ROAD DIET THAT DID COME UP
AT THE RC JUST LIKE WE SAID
LIKE WHY ARE WE ONLY TALKING
ABOUT PRIVATE PROPERTY?
LIKE THIS IS OUR PROBLEM.
BUT I ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
LIKE THERE MAY BE LIMITATIONS
THERE THAT&apos;S THE SOME GOAL.
SO THAT&apos;S MY TWO CENTS ON THIS
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT IS THE
ZERO IS MY PROBLEM.
IT&apos;S NOT THE FIFTEEN AND WHAT
IT&apos;S LIKE AND THAT&apos;S OK.
I MEAN LIKE I&apos;D ACCEPT TWENTY
FIVE AND I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
QUIBBLE ABOUT THAT.
IT&apos;S THE ZERO THAT I JUST I
JUST THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
REALLY HARD TO PULL FORWARD AND
BE ABLE TO HAVE ALL THOSE
THINGS BALANCED THERE.
I JUST THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
REALLY HARD.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A DRIVEWAY NOT A
STREET.
THAT&apos;S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
DOWNTOWN AND HERE.
IF YOU&apos;VE EVER PULLED IF YOU
WATCH THOSE ALLEYS AND YOU SEE
THE CARS LIKE
INCHING FORWARD,
IT&apos;S BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE RIGHT.
THEY&apos;RE AND SO WHEN YOU HAVE A
STREET YOU HAVE SIDEWALK.
DO YOU HAVE A LOT OF OTHER
THINGS THAT ARE GIVING YOU ROOM
TO SEE AROUND THE BUILDINGS?
BUT IF YOU HAVE A DRIVEWAY
COMING THROUGH AT TWO ZERO
SETBACK BUILDINGS YOU JUST
DON&apos;T HAVE A LOT OF ROOM TO BE
ABLE TO SEE WHAT&apos;S GOING ON IN
FRONT OF YOU.
DO YOU SEE I MEAN I SEE SOME
COMMISSIONER CLARK HONESTLY I
THINK THAT&apos;S THE WHOLE POINT
THOSE BECAUSE INSTEAD OF A CAR
JUST PULLING OUT FIVE, TEN
MILES AN HOUR THEY&apos;RE INCHING
FORWARD.
I WOULD MUCH RATHER BE HIT BY A
CAR THAT&apos;S GOING, YOU KNOW,
INCHING FORWARD ONTO THE
SIDEWALK THAN SOMEBODY WHO JUST
KIND OF CLEAR LOOKS ONE WAY AND
DOESN&apos;T SEE THE PERSON THE
OTHER WAY.
AND LIKE EVEN THE OTHER DAY I
WAS ON YOU KNOW, ON CAMPUS
DRIVING AND FOUND MYSELF
FALLING INTO THIS A LITTLE BIT
WHERE I LOOKED ONE WAY AND THEN
KIND OF KEPT GOING AND DIDN&apos;T
SEE THE PEDESTRIAN.
THERE&apos;S WIDE OPEN VISUAL LINE
BUT I KNOW THAT, YOU KNOW,
DRIVERS TEND TO BE MUCH MORE
CAREFUL DRIVING IN AN URBAN
ENVIRONMENT.
NO ONE YOU KNOW THOSE ALLEYWAYS
YOU DON&apos;T EVER FIND SOMEBODY
PEELING OUT WITHOUT DOING A
ROLLING STOP.
YOU HAVE TO STOP AN INCH YOUR
WAY OUT.
AND I THINK AS SOMEONE LIVES ON
A BUSY INTERSECTION THAT HAS
INCHED MY WAY OUT WHEN I BACK
OUT ACROSS THE SIDEWALK I AM
ALWAYS REALLY KEENLY AWARE
OF WHETHER THERE&apos;S A PEDESTRIAN
COMING BEHIND THE SIDEWALK
WHEREAS YOU KNOW, IF YOU&apos;RE
JUST IF YOU HAVE A CLEAR LINE
OF SIGHT, PEOPLE ARE MUCH LESS
LIKELY TO BE CAREFUL WHILE
DRIVING AND THAT&apos;S I THINK THE
WHOLE POINT IS THAT IT&apos;S
INCONVENIENT FOR THE DRIVER AND
HAS YOU FORCES YOU TO INCH
FORWARD AND THAT&apos;S KIND OF BY
DESIGN.
AND SO I&apos;M VERY COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT BECAUSE I THINK THAT
KIND OF IS WHAT MAKES IT WORK.
THAT&apos;S COMMISSIONER MIKE.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE ON.
IT&apos;S OK.
THAT&apos;S OK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO THEN CONTRARY TO SOME OF THE
COMMENTS WE RECEIVED WE
ACTUALLY DID HEAR FROM
DEVELOPERS AND LAND OWNERS EVEN
THOUGH I HAVE HEARD UNIVERSALLY
THAT THIS IS A GIVEAWAY TO
DEVELOPERS THAT WE ARE GIVING
AWAY EVERYTHING AND ASKING FOR
NOTHING.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE DEVELOPERS WHO
ALSO DON&apos;T LIKE TAKE ONE AND SO
I FOUND THAT TO BE I&apos;M GLAD
YOU&apos;RE LAUGHING BECAUSE I
ACTUALLY FOUND THAT TO BE
INTERESTING BECAUSE IT WAS A
COUNTERNARRATIVE TO THIS NOTION
THAT THIS IS JUST A WINDFALL
FOR EVERY DEVELOPER AND THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO CASH IN AS SOON THIS
ZONING THING MAKES A CHANGE SO
MUCH.
&gt;&gt; DELIO I ASKED YOU ABOUT THE
REMODEL BECAUSE A LOT OF THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE SHARED ABOUT
THE BUSINESSES WERE A PROPERTY
OWNER IS GOING TO KICK OUT
STADIUM HARDWARE AND SELL THEIR
LOT TO A LUXURY CONDO DEVELOPER
AND WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO STOP THAT.
AND WE HAD A DEVELOPER COME IN
AND SAY I HAVE TENANT
AGREEMENTS THAT I HAVE ALREADY
CREATED AND THIS ZONING HARMS
THOSE TENANT AGREEMENTS THEY
SAID IF I WANT IT TO REMODEL
YOU&apos;RE NOW MAKING ME BUILD TWO
STORIES INSTEAD OF JUST
REMODELING ONE STORY.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I ASKED AND I JUST
WOULD LOVE FOR YOU TO CLARIFY
FOR ALL OF US WHO ARE STILL
LISTENING THE WHAT WOULD
TRIGGER THAT TWO STORY MINIMUM
REQUIREMENT IN THE TAXI ONE IF
I WAS A DEVELOPER SO IT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO GET TRIGGERED IF I
CHANGE THE FACE OF THE
BUILDING.
SO IF I&apos;M PUTTING UP A NEW
AWNING OR EVEN A NEW FACADE ON
A BUILDING BECAUSE I&apos;M NOT
CONSTRUCTING ANYTHING NEW, I&apos;M
JUST LIKE PUTTING UP A NEW FACE
LIKE A FRAME ON THE OUTSIDE
OF THE BUILDING THAT WON&apos;T
TRIGGER THE MINIMUM TWO STOREY
HEIGHT IF I AM SUBDIVIDING A
TENANT SPACE.
SO LET&apos;S SAY I HAD A 10000
SQUARE FOOT TENANT AND NOW I&apos;M
BUILDING FOR TWENTY FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT TENANTS
THAT WON&apos;T TRIGGER IT.
THE ONLY THING THAT TRIGGERS IT
IS SO POINT TO YOU NOW
ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA WHICH
WOULD BE AN ADDITION TO THE
EXISTING BUILDING MAKING YOUR
10000 SQUARE FOOT BUILDING
THIRTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
ARE BUILDING A WHOLE BUILDING
SO GOING FROM ZERO TO WHATEVER
MIGHT BE A MAJOR SITE
REMODELING ALSO IS DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITY THAT NEEDS A SITE PLAN
APPROVAL.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT I MEAN IS THAT
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO A PARKING LOT,
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO COMPLETELY REDO
THE PARKING LOT WE ORIENTED A
MAJOR SITE IMPROVEMENT WOULD
ALSO TRIGGER SITE REVIEW
REQUIREMENTS BUT IT&apos;S THE SITE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS LIKE
PLANS HAVE TO COMPLY WITH
ZONING TO BE APPROVED AND THEN
WHEN SO THEN WHEN DO YOU NEED
TO SUBMIT A SITE PLAN AND OUR
TRIGGERS ARE NEW FOR AREA BUT
WORK WITHIN AN EXISTING FLOOR
AREA IS EXEMPT FROM SITE
REVIEW.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S LIKE BUILDING PERMITS
BUT SO WE KNOW THAT FROM THE
FEEDBACK WE GOT FROM THE
DEVELOPER THAT THEY MAY NOT
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF TAKE ONE AND
PUT RESIDENTIAL WHAT I GUESS WE
COULD PROBABLY GET TO ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY STORIES IN
THE VILLAGE PARKING LOT IN THAT
BIG SECTION THE PARKING LOT
THAT DOESN&apos;T REALLY GET USED
BUT LET&apos;S SAY THEY DID DO THAT.
THEY TOOK THAT BIG SECTION OUT.
THEY WENT UP TO A LINE THAT
THEY PUT RESIDENTIAL IN THERE.
DOES THAT REQUIRE THEM TO THEN
SWEEP AROUND THE ENTIRE
DEVELOPMENT AND TAKE IT UP TO
TWO STOREY SO ONE MARKET HAS TO
GO TO TWO STORIES.
MY GOSH, THE DOLLAR STORE WHICH
IS NOW FIVE DOLLARS BECAUSE
OF INFLATION.
&gt;&gt; DO ANY OF THOSE STORES HAVE
TO GO TO TWO STORIES?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I THINK STORES LIKE
MILLION DOLLAR FIFTY STORE THAT
WAS IN THE CROSSHAIRS ALSO
BECAUSE THERE&apos;S ALSO A FIVE
BELOW THERE.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S I WAS COMPLETELY
YET THE THE WORK IS NOT BEING
DONE TO THE MAIN P&amp;L THEN THEN
THAT REMAINS AN EXISTING
NONCONFORMING THAT STAYS THERE.
THAT BUILDING IS NOT BEING
TOUCHED.
THE NEW BUILDING DOES NEED TO
BE TWO STORIES OR WHATEVER
NUMBER OF STORIES.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT IS ONE THEN OUR
MOST BELOVED STRUCTURE IN THIS
CORRIDOR IS THE DAIRY QUEEN.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY THREATS TO THE
DAIRY QUEEN WITH THE ONE
WEALTHY PROS AND CONS TO THE
DAIRY QUEEN PRO NO PARKING
REQUIRED SO DAIRY QUEEN PRO IS
A QUEEN I THINK HAS LIKE A
THREE FOOT STEP BACK ON THE
SIDE ON THE SIDE BUT DAIRY
QUEEN IS SINGLE STORY SO THAT&apos;S
A THOUSAND CONS.
IT&apos;S A WASH WITH WITH DAIRY
QUEEN.
&gt;&gt; I HONESTLY AS AN EXAMPLE
OF IT&apos;S A REALLY, REALLY SMALL
SITE AND I DON&apos;T THINK THAT YOU
CAN READ DEVELOPMENT VERY WELL
UNDER ITS CURRENT C3.
&gt;&gt; SO IT DEFINITELY HAS
CHALLENGES NOW AND I THINK IT
WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE
CHALLENGES.
BUT THIS MIGHT MIGHT YOU KNOW
THEY MIGHT
IT HAS CHALLENGES
NOW ANYWAY AND IT&apos;S PROBABLY
GOING TO CONTINUE TO HAVE
CHALLENGES AND I THINK WE&apos;RE
JUST IT&apos;S A WASH WE&apos;RE SWAPPING
ONE FOR THE OTHER.
I&apos;M SURE A DAIRY QUEEN WANTS TO
REDEVELOP EITHER WAY WITH THIS
REZONING WITHOUT SOME
CREATIVITY IS GOING TO BE
NEEDED AND MAYBE SOME
FLEXIBILITY JUST BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S IT&apos;S A TINY TINY SITE
AND THEN ONE LAST QUESTION AND
GOING BACK TO STADIUM HEARTWARE
BECAUSE THAT HAS BEEN IN THE
MINDS OF FOLKS ALONG THAT
CORRIDOR IS ONE OF THESE LOCAL
BUSINESSES THAT WE WANT TO
PRESERVE AND MAKE SURE THAT
THEY CAN THRIVE IN THIS NEW
ZONING DISTRICT.
LET&apos;S SAY I DON&apos;T KNOW THE
SITUATION WITH STADIUM HARDWARE
WHETHER THEY OWN THEIR SITE OR
ARE RENTERS THERE.
BUT LET&apos;S SAY THEY HAD A
DEVELOPER AND THEY WERE RENTING
FROM IT.
DOES ONE PREVENT THE STADIUM
ONE OR STADIUM HARBOR FROM NOT
BEING ON THAT GROUNDS GROUND
FLOOR AS LONG AS IT MEETS THE
ZONING REQUIREMENTS?
&gt;&gt; NO, IT&apos;S NOT PREVENTED.
OK, BUT CAN BE PART OF THE MIX
OF MIXED USES SO WE COULD PUT
THE STADIUM HARDWARE BACK ON
THE FLOOR AND STACK UP HOUSING
ON TOP OF AS THE LIMIT ALLOWS
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
SO IS KIND OF LIKE HOW I&apos;M
THINKING ABOUT THIS NOW AND I
APPRECIATE THE SUGGESTION THAT
WE&apos;VE HAD TONIGHT AND
COMMISSIONER MILLS I THINK
STARTED WITH SOME OF THE
STORIES THAT THIS IS SOME POINT
BECAUSE WE HAVEN&apos;T SEEN ANY
OF THE DEVELOPMENT THAT IS
CURRENTLY ALLOWED THAT WE WANT.
BUT THAT IS WHY TO ME REZONING
IS SO IMPORTANT AND YOU KNOW, I
DON&apos;T SEE THIS AS A GIVEAWAY TO
DEVELOPERS.
I THINK THIS IS REALLY HELPING
US AS A COMMUNITY ENSURE THAT
WE GET THE TYPES OF DEVELOPMENT
THAT WE WANT.
I THINK WE ALL REMEMBER THE
PROPOSAL FOR THE STORAGE ON
STADIUM THAT IS CURRENTLY
ALLOWED.
THAT IS NOT THE TYPE THAT WE
HEARD THE COMMUNITY LOUD AND
CLEAR.
THAT IS NOT THE TYPE
OF DEVELOPMENT THAT THEY WANT
AND LUCKILY THE DEVELOPER IS
GOING TO PULL OUT OF THAT.
BUT I THINK THIS PROACTIVE
REZONING IS MAKING SURE THAT WE
ARE GETTING THE FORM AND THE
DENSITY THAT WE WANT THAT THAT
DENSITY TO TO A CERTAIN EXTENT
IS ALLOWED BUT WE&apos;RE NOT
GETTING IT.
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHERE I THINK BY
DOING THE PROACTIVE ZONING
WHICH I THINK A LOT PEOPLE HAVE
HAD CONCERNS WITH LIKE THIS
KIND OF FORCES THE HAND A
LITTLE BIT MORE THAN ANYTHING
THAT&apos;S CURRENTLY ALLOWED.
I THINK TO THE POINT OF FACT
RIGHT NOW THIS A REALLY WIDE
CORRIDOR THAT FRANKLY I WOULD
NOT WANT TO CROSS ON FOOT.
I THINK IF WE WANT TO GET
SOMETHING THAT IS TRULY VIABLE
AND WALKABLE AND IT FEELS MORE
COMFORTABLE, THE ROAD JUST
CAN&apos;T BE THAT WIDE AND I KNOW
THAT WE DO NOT HAVE ANY CONTROL
OVER THAT.
I THINK THAT IN THE FUTURE
THERE PROBABLY IS GOING TO BE
AN OPPORTUNITY
TO REDUCE THE
NUMBER OF DRIVING DRIVING
LANES.
RIGHT.
THE SIDEWALKS AND ADDING TREES
AND SO I THINK WHERE I&apos;M GOING
WITH THIS X AND I THINK I&apos;M I&apos;M
OPEN TO THE SUGGESTION THAT MR
LEO MADE EARLIER THAT I COULD
NOT REITERATE RIGHT NOW ABOUT
SORT OF LIKE IF YOU KNOW IF THE
SIDEWALKS ARE REALLY NARROW
THEN WE COULD EXTEND REALLY
REMEMBER YOU KNOW.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES.
THEN THE MINIMUM WOULD NOT BE
ZERO.
BUT YOU KNOW IF THINKING
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT LIKE HOW
THIS APPLIES ON STADIUM WE DID
NARROW THE ROAD WHICH I THINK
SORT OF HAS TO HAPPEN TO GET
THAT SORT OF FEELING THAT I
THINK PEOPLE REALLY WANT IN
TERMS OF WALKABILITY,
LIKABILITY THEN ANY BUILDING
THAT&apos;S BUILT FIVE OR TEN OR
WHATEVER THE SUFFOLK IS GETS
EVEN FURTHER BACK AND YOU WANT
THOSE BUILDINGS TO COMMISSIONER
CLARK&apos;S POINT, YOU WANT THOSE
BUILDINGS TO BE AS CLOSE AS
POSSIBLE, SORT OF ENCOURAGE THE
SLOWING OF TRAFFIC.
AND SO ANYWAY, I GUESS
SUMMARIZING WRITING ALL THAT
I&apos;M VERY COMFORTABLE WITH THIS
BUT I WOULD BE OPEN TO
MODIFYING TO SEE ONE FULLY SORT
OF TO THAT SUGGESTION THAT YOU
ALL JUST SAID ABOUT THE NOT
ZERO BECAUSE SIDEWALKS ARE
NARROW.
MR CLARK, QUICK QUESTION FOR ME
MEMORY WHAT WAS WHERE DID WE
LAND ON THE TRANSPARENT STREET
FIRST FLOORS ON THE CORNERS
IT&apos;S REQUIRED AS MY SO DOES
THAT DO ANYTHING TO GET US TO
SAFER FEELING CROSSINGS AND
STUFF IF WE HAVE TRANSPARENT
FIRST FLOORS FOR THE
VISIBILITY?
JUST SORT OF CURIOUS I KNOW
THAT&apos;S ONE TOOL THAT TOLD US
ONE REASON FOR TRANSPARENT
FIRST FLOORS.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW.
&gt;&gt; SO WE DID END UP IT IS IT
JUST AT THE CORNERS OF THE
CORNERS OF THE OF THE PROPERTY?
NOT NECESSARILY THE CORNERS
WHERE IT DRIVES WOULD BE COMING
IN AND OUT BECAUSE I THINK THE
LIKE AND AGAIN YOU KNOW, THIS
WOULD ALL NEED TO BE REJIGGERED
AND THINGS LIKE THAT BUT UM
RIGHT NOW THE VAST MAJORITY
OF SITES I&apos;VE WORKED ON HAVE
ENDED UP NEEDING TO FOR TWO
ENTRIES FOR FIRE BECAUSE I NEED
TO LOOP THROUGH BECAUSE THEY
CAN&apos;T TURN AROUND.
&gt;&gt; THEY HAVE TO HAVE A BIG
HAMMERHEAD OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
&gt;&gt; AND SO IT ENDS UP OFTEN
BEING TOO TO BE ABLE TO MAKE IT
WORTH IT OBVIOUSLY.
&gt;&gt; AND A TINY SITE THAT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN BUT THEY&apos;RE TOO
FAR.
THE ROAD RIGHT AWAY DOESN&apos;T
ALLOW ME TO DO IT THERE IN
TERMS OF YOU HAVE TO HAVE
ACCESS WITHIN YOUR SITE.
&gt;&gt; SO MY GUESS IS IS THAT
THERE&apos;S AND THIS WOULD ALL NEED
TO BE REVIEWED.
I&apos;M GOING TO SPEAK OF THE TOP
MY HEAD HERE BUT I THINK THE
THE THE IS AT THE CORNERS
OF YOUR LOT OR THE CORNERS
OF THE LOCK IS IT OR THE
CORNERS OF YOUR LOT
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S THE CORNERS OF PUBLIC
STREET.
YEAH.
SO IT&apos;S NOT GOING UP TO PUBLIC
STREETS SO WHERE THE TRAFFIC IS
RIGHT WHERE THAT WHERE THE MAIN
ROADS ARE COMING IN AND OUT AND
WHAT&apos;S THE PERCENTAGE
OF TRANSPARENCE FRONT BUILDINGS
QUESTION FACILITIES OF A SIXTY
PERCENT DOUBLE CHECKING OK GO
AHEAD COMMISSIONER RIGHT WOULD
YOU COMMISSIONER GET GOOD
OF WOULD YOU CONSIDER A TRIGGER
IN THE TAXI ONE ALONG THE LINES
OF A FIVE FOOT MINIMUM SET BACK
AT A CURB CUT
.
&gt;&gt; MR LEONARD MADE A REALLY
STRONG FACE WHEN I SAID THAT SO
I WAS JUST THINKING YEAH THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WE&apos;D
HAVE TO EXPLORE MORE DEEPLY
THAN JUST KIND OF ON THE ON THE
FLY BECAUSE WE&apos;RE TRYING TO GET
TO IS IF WE WERE ABLE TO PASS A
TAXI ONE BUT THEN WE COULD DO A
TAXI AMENDMENT THAT HAD A
TRIGGER THAT WAS IN IT SO THEN
THAT WAY IT WOULDN&apos;T REQUIRE IT
UNIVERSALLY IN PLACES WHERE IT
DOESN&apos;T NEED TO BE BUT THAT IT
HAD IT WOULD BE SOMETHING WE
COULD DEBATE TO ADDRESS THE
CONCERN THAT YOUR ARTICULATE
WITHOUT MAKING YOU FEEL LIKE IT
HAS TO BE IGNORED LIKE IN ORDER
TO JUST USE IN WHAT YOU SAID
EARLIER WE&apos;RE ON A TRAIN.
YOU SEE THE MOMENTUM OF THE
TRAIN.
YOU DON&apos;T WANT TO STOP THE
TRAIN BUT YOU DO HAVE THESE
CONCERNS AND YOU&apos;RE CONFLICTED
AND SO THEN IT&apos;S LIKE WHAT IF
WE GOT TO A PLACE WHERE WE
COULD LIKE FIGURE OUT AN
AMENDMENT THAT WOULD SATISFY
THE CONCERN THAT YOU&apos;RE
ARTICULATING WITHOUT SENDING IT
ALL THE WAY BACK TO STAFF
WITHOUT BRINGING ANOTHER PUBLIC
HEARING, WITHOUT HAVING TO SORT
OF DO THE STEPS AGAIN?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, AND I GUESS AND THANK
YOU FOR ASKING
I THINK THAT
THERE IS A PATH THAT I COULD
SEE PASSING IT KNOWING THAT I
AM GOING TO BE BUGGING YOU ALL
TO COME BACK AND CHANGE SOME
OF THESE THINGS BECAUSE I FEEL
LIKE I&apos;M SPEWING A BUNCH
OF STUFF THAT I GENERALLY KNOW
THAT I FEEL LIKE THERE HAS TO
BE A LOT MORE UNDERSTOOD ABOUT
TRULY HOW THESE THINGS ARE
GOING TO LAY OUT HERE BECAUSE
AGAIN I THINK WE&apos;RE SORT OF ALL
IMAGINING THINGS BUT IT&apos;S LIKE
I FEEL LIKE WE REALLY NEED TO
KIND OF HONE THIS AND FIGURE
OUT I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT ANYBODY
IS GOING TO BE REDEVELOPING
ANYTHING NEXT WEEK BASED ON
THIS.
YOU KNOW, SO I THINK THAT
ESPECIALLY GIVEN THE HISTORY
THAT REALLY THEY COULD HAVE
BEEN DOING A LOT OF THIS FOR
THE LAST THIRTY YEARS HAS BUT I
FEEL LIKE THERE NEEDS TO BE
SOME SORT OF FINE TUNING DONE
BECAUSE I&apos;M I&apos;M UNCOMFORTABLE
WITH THE ZERO SIPEK THING AND
I, I, I, I THINK THERE&apos;S
PROBABLY SOME NUANCED WAY THAT
WE CAN DEAL WITH SLOWING DOWN,
CUING THE ROAD BEING NARROWER
AND BEING ABLE TO HAVE SAFETY
ADDRESSED WITH SOME OF THESE
THINGS AND NOT HAVE IT FEEL
LIKE JUST A CONCRETE JUNGLE
EITHER.
SO I THINK I PASSED THIS NIGHT
BECAUSE I KNOW IT REQUIRES ME
TO DO THIS TO OTHER PEOPLE BUT
I REALLY I REALLY FEEL LIKE
THIS NEEDS TO BE FINE TUNED.
I REALLY DO.
AND SO THAT DOES MEAN REALLY IT
IS GOING IT WOULD BE GOING BACK
TO AND GOING THROUGH ALL THIS
AGAIN.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S THE THING.
IT&apos;S LIKE SO BUT IT WOULD IT
COULD ENABLE PEOPLE TO BE ABLE
TO KIND OF START WORKING ON
THINGS AND STUFF LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO I I FEEL LIKE THIS NEEDS
TO BE FINE TUNED.
&gt;&gt; I FEEL LIKE NONE OF US
REALLY HAS THIS SENSE OF THE
DESIGN IMPLICATIONS OF WHAT
THIS IS GOING TO MEAN AND THAT
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT MEANS
MODELING IT OR YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER JUST TO GET A SENSE
OF WHAT THAT COMMISSIONER, LET
ME ASK YOU THIS REALLY QUICKLY
.
DO YOU THINK BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
YOU KNOW, INITIALLY ONE WAS
DESIGNED TO BE FLEXIBLE AND
APPLY ANYWHERE?
I THINK LIKE AS WE&apos;RE SEEING
THE YOU KNOW, GOING DEEPER INTO
THE DIFFERENT CORRIDORS, WE&apos;RE
SORT OF DISCOVERING THESE
THINGS THAT YOU KNOW, I THINK
YOU CAN SET YOURSELF LIKE I
DIDN&apos;T REALLY THINK ABOUT THAT
WHEN WE WERE TALKING ABOUT IT
AND EISENHOWER I&apos;M WONDERING
THEN WOULD YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE
GOING THROUGH THE OTHER LIKE
LOOKING AT WASHTENAW NEXT LIKE
LOOKING AT THEM, LOOKING AT
PLYMOUTH AND SEEING LIKE ARE
THERE MORE THINGS I MEAN I&apos;D
HATE TO LIKE GO THROUGH A
MILLION DIFFERENT CHANGES.
YOU KNOW, I THINK WE NEED TO I
THINK THIS CHANGE THAT YOU&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS X LIKE WILL
BE UNIVERSALLY BENEFICIAL WITH
FEEL LIKE SORT OF FLEXING
ESPECIALLY IN PLACES LIKE
STADIUM OR WE DON&apos;T HAVE LIKE
THE ABILITY FOR LIKE STRUCTURES
AND WE DO NEED THOSE TO MAKE
THAT FEEL WELCOMING AND
WALKABLE.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE GOING TO
DISCOVER SOMETHING ELSE
EMOTIONAL.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
AND PLYMOUTH SO LIKE HOW
COMFORTABLE DO YOU FEEL?
YOU KNOW, LIKE POTENTIALLY WE
WOULDN&apos;T YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT MAYBE A YEAR FROM
NOW OR MORE DOING SOME OF THESE
AMENDMENTS LIKE THAT&apos;S A GOOD
QUESTION RIGHT.
AND THE OTHER THING IS LIKE YOU
KNOW, GIVEN THIS EXPERIENCE
DOES IT MAKES SENSE THAT LIKE
IT MAY NOT BE ONE FOR THESE
OTHER THINGS THEY MAY HAVE
DIFFERENT VERSIONS BASED ON
WHATEVER THEY ARE AND I THINK
THAT&apos;S KIND OF I THINK PART
OF WHAT WE NEED TO BE OPEN TO
IS THAT THESE SITUATIONS MAY BE
DIFFERENT AND SOME OF THESE
PLACES THAT REQUIRE US TO HAVE
IT BE A TICKET TO OUR THREE.
&gt;&gt; NOW THE THING THAT I&apos;M
SEEING THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THESE TWO CORRIDORS, IT&apos;S LIKE
ONE DIMENSION.
IT&apos;S NOT LIKE FIFTEEN
DIMENSIONS AND SO I FEEL LIKE
OK, WE CAN PROBABLY WORK WITH
THAT BUT I DON&apos;T WANT TO
GUARANTEE ANYTHING ABOUT
WASHINGTON OR PLYMOUTH BECAUSE
IT&apos;S LIKE I HAVEN&apos;T REALLY
LOOKED THOSE YET TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS ARE.
YOU KNOW THEY&apos;RE SO BUT I COULD
IMAGINE THAT THERE COULD BE
DIFFERENT VERSIONS OF THIS
BUSINESS, YOU KNOW, FOR THESE
OTHER AREAS BASED ON LIKE I
THINK SOME OF IT IS UNTIL YOU
KIND OF GET INTO THAT QUARTER
AND REALLY START THINKING ABOUT
THE IMPLICATIONS OF IT THAT IT
DOESN&apos;T BECOME CLEAR TO YOU
BECAUSE IT WASN&apos;T THE SAME
ISSUE IN SOME WAYS IT&apos;S NICE
NOW BECAUSEOU ARE PLENTY
OF ROOM.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S LIKE YOU
DON&apos;T THINK ABOUT IT UNTIL IT&apos;S
LIKE WELL THE SECOND YOU HAVE
NO ROOM HERE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, GREAT LOOK ON THEIR
FACE I THINK GRETCHEN ON
PLYMOUTH FEEL SIMILAR TO ME TO
THESE AREAS THAT I WOULD BE
LIKE YEAH I THINK ONE MAKES
SENSE.
MAYBE THERE WILL BE THESE LIKE
MINOR TWEAKS THAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT SOMETHING LIKE PACARD I
DON&apos;T KNOW.
&gt;&gt; YEAH RIGHT.
THAT MAYBE IS WHERE WE START
WITH LIKE TAKETO.
YEAH YEAH.
&gt;&gt; SO I HOPE I HOPE YOU&apos;RE ABLE
TO SAY I HOPE YOU&apos;RE
COMFORTABLE WITH MAYBE HOLDING
ONTO THESE AMENDMENTS UNTIL WE
SORT EXPLORE THESE A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER BUT AND THAT&apos;S A
QUESTION I THINK TOO ABOUT SORT
OF WHICH YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT.
RIGHT WITH SOME OF THIS BECAUSE
YOU KNOW WHETHER IT&apos;S A
REVISION OF WHATEVER THIS THING
IS OR WE MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
SECTION AND THAT&apos;S SOMETHING I
THINK WE CAN I DON&apos;T THINK
ANYBODY IS DECIDING THAT RIGHT
NOW.
BUT I LIKE JUST THINKING ABOUT
ALL THIS OUT LOUD.
I THINK I&apos;M OK WITH PASSING
THIS TONIGHT JUST KNOWING THAT
I THINK WE NEED A LITTLE BIT
OF MINOR TWEAKING TO BE ABLE TO
MANAGE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
THE PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS
BETWEEN THESE VERY DIFFERENT
CORRIDORS REALLY IN TERMS
OF THE REALITY OF HOW THEY
LAYOUT.
&gt;&gt; AND I THINK THAT&apos;S ALWAYS
THE INTENTION BECAUSE I MEAN
LIKE WE
KNEW THAT IT WASN&apos;T
GOING TO BE PERFECT.
SO NOW WE&apos;RE FINDING THAT IT&apos;S
NOT ANY OTHER NO COMMISSIONER,
THIS MAKES THAT I&apos;M
UNDERSTANDING AND I ALSO WANT
TO ASK FOR FEEDBACK FROM STAFF
ON THE DIRECTION WE&apos;RE TAKING
RIGHT NOW.
UM, SO I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING THAT
NONE OF US BELIEVES THAT
PASSING TAKE ONE&apos;S OWNING WILL
MAKE A THOUSAND FLOWERS BLOOM
OVERNIGHT.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE DO KNOW THAT WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN ARE PROPOSALS FOR
FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT,
PARTICULARLY IN THIS QUARTER
THAT WE DON&apos;T LIKE THE TICK ONE
PROHIBITS.
SO THAT&apos;S SORT OF ONE THING
THAT WE KNOW SO WE KNOW WE HAVE
TIME BUT I&apos;M TRYING TO GET MY
HEAD AROUND WHAT THE PROBLEM IS
AND AND I&apos;M ALSO TRYING TO
THINK ABOUT HOW I BEHAVE THESE
KINDS OF PLACES BECAUSE I&apos;M
OFTEN ON PLIMOTH AND I&apos;M
SOMETIMES ON STADIUM AND I I
KNOW THAT I ALMOST NEVER GO
STRAIGHT OUT ONTO THE MAIN
ROAD.
I&apos;M ALWAYS TRYING TO GO OUT
ONTO THE SIDE ONTO A STREET
THAT&apos;S A SIDE STREET AND I&apos;M
UNDERSTANDING THAT THERE ARE
SOME PLACES WHERE YOU CAN DO
THAT AND SOME PLACES WHERE YOU
CAN&apos;T.
AND THE PROBLEM WITH STADIUM IS
THAT WE&apos;RE WORKING IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE THERE ARE A
LOT OF DRIVEWAYS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
AND SO IT&apos;S NOT A CITY GRID
ACTUALLY.
AND SO WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR AN
URBAN FORM ANYTHING THAT AN
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT&apos;S NOT A
CITY GRID.
SO OK, SO SO I THINK I
UNDERSTAND THE PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; UM, I I THINK THAT EARLIER
MR LEONARD SAID SOMETHING ABOUT
THEIR THEIR THINGS THAT JUST
ARE TRUE ABOUT STADIUM THAT ONE
ISN&apos;T GOING TO CHANGE AND CAN&apos;T
CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M TRYING TO SQUARE ALL
THESE THINGS AND I JUST IF I&apos;M
SO I FEEL LIKE OK I UNDERSTAND
THE PROBLEM I DON&apos;T NECESSARILY
UNDERSTAND WHAT I FEEL LIKE.
&gt;&gt; I SHOULD DO BUT I&apos;D BE
INTERESTED TO JUST ASK FOR
STAFF TO EXPRESS OPINION AT
THIS POINT.
UM AND DOESN&apos;T IT FEEL WEIRD
THAT MR. LEO IS SITTING IN
FRONT OF THE SAME WALL THAT
WE&apos;RE SITTING IN?
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT HER OK, UM
SO
WHAT I HAD JUST TO REITERATE I
THINK I&apos;M HEARING IS A QUESTION
OF GREEN AND I THINK I DON&apos;T I
THINK THAT IT IS A TRADE OFF UM
AS WE HAVE ALL CONCLUDED
STADIUM I THINK IT IS UNLIKELY
FOR A VERY LONG PERIOD OF TIME
TO BE A TREE LINED STREET.
I THINK THAT BY PROVIDING ZERO
SETBACKS WE ARE INCREASING
FLEXIBILITY TOWARDS A MORE
CONSTRAINED FEELING RIGHT AWAY,
ALBEIT POTENTIALLY WITH A MORE
URBANIZED FIELD IF WE THINK
THAT GREEN IS CRITICAL WITHIN
THE SPACE BETWEEN THOSE
BUILDINGS THEN I THINK IT&apos;S
WORTHWHILE TO EXPLORE A GREATER
SET BACK.
BUT I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR AND
MAYBE CONTRIBUTE BRENNO FIVE OR
TEN FEET OF A SETBACK.
I DON&apos;T KNOW RIGHT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THAT WILL
ACCOMPLISH IT.
WE MIGHT VERY WELL IF THAT&apos;S
THE GOAL IS TO ADD GREEN YOU
MIGHT VERY WELL BE TALKING
ABOUT SETBACKS THAT ARE MORE
AKIN TO WHAT ARE THERE NOW
MAXIMUM OF TWENTY FIVE FEET.
I DON&apos;T I&apos;M SURE THAT THERE ARE
SOME VARIABILITY BUT UM LIKE
I&apos;M JUST SPECULATING THAT BY
SIMPLY ADDING A FIVE FOOT
MINIMUM STEP BACK IS NOT GOING
TO SOLVE THAT PROBLEM.
SO UM I SORT OF FEEL LIKE THE
QUESTION IS I THINK ONE IN
STADIUM IS GOING TO MEMORIALIZE
THAT STREET AND ITS WAY THAT
HAS SOME BENEFITS TO TRAFFIC.
I THINK IT HAS SOME BENEFITS TO
PEDESTRIAN COMFORT .
REDUCING SPEED AND BICYCLE
I THINK IT HAS SOME BENEFITS TO
ACCESS AND THE LIKE.
REDUCING SPEED AND BICYCLE
I THINK THAT MIGHT MAKE IT MORE
ACCESS AND THE LIKE.
CHALLENGING TO ADD GREEN WITHIN
I THINK THAT MIGHT MAKE IT MORE
THAT SPACE AND SO I I SORT
CHALLENGING TO ADD GREEN WITHIN
OF FEEL LIKE IT IS SORT OF A
THAT SPACE AND SO I I SORT
TRADEOFF WHEN WE&apos;RE TALKING
OF FEEL LIKE IT IS SORT OF A
ABOUT SCENARIOS THAT IF THE
TRADEOFF WHEN WE&apos;RE TALKING
SIDEWALK IS X THEN IT MIGHT BE
ABOUT SCENARIOS THAT IF THE
MORE THAT I DON&apos;T THAT DOESN&apos;T
SIDEWALK IS X THEN IT MIGHT BE
SEEM TO ME LIKE IT&apos;S GOING TO
MORE THAT I DON&apos;T THAT DOESN&apos;T
SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
SEEM TO ME LIKE IT&apos;S GOING TO
I MEAN THIS IS A PRETTY BIG
SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
INFRASTRUCTURE CHARACTER
I MEAN THIS IS A PRETTY BIG
DEFINING THING THAT EVEN IF
INFRASTRUCTURE CHARACTER
THAT TYPE OF STANDARD IS
DEFINING THING THAT EVEN IF
APPLIED CASE BY CASE BASIS
THAT TYPE OF STANDARD IS
THERE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE A LONG
APPLIED CASE BY CASE BASIS
TIME BEFORE IT&apos;S REALIZED
THERE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE A LONG
PERHAPS IF THAT IS DETERMINED
TIME BEFORE IT&apos;S REALIZED
TO BE AN IMPORTANT GOAL, IT
PERHAPS IF THAT IS DETERMINED
MIGHT MAKE MORE SENSE TO
TO BE AN IMPORTANT GOAL, IT
DECLARE THAT WE WANT THIS TO BE
MIGHT MAKE MORE SENSE TO
MORE OF A PARKWAY TYPE FIELD
DECLARE THAT WE WANT THIS TO BE
THAN AN URBAN TYPE FEEL OFF THE
MORE OF A PARKWAY TYPE FIELD
CUFF THAT SEEMS A LITTLE LESS
THAN AN URBAN TYPE FEEL OFF THE
TRANSIT SUPPORTIVE TO ME MOST
CUFF THAT SEEMS A LITTLE LESS
OUR EXPERIENCE IN PLANNING IS
TRANSIT SUPPORTIVE TO ME MOST
THAT BRAIN USE IS CLOSE TO
OUR EXPERIENCE IN PLANNING IS
THOSE TRANSIT STOPS IS BETTER
THAT BRAIN USE IS CLOSE TO
FOR THAT DYNAMIC.
THOSE TRANSIT STOPS IS BETTER
SO I MEAN I THINK WHAT I&apos;M
FOR THAT DYNAMIC.
HEARING IS YOU&apos;RE WRESTLING
SO I MEAN I THINK WHAT I&apos;M
WITH THE CHARACTER OF THE
HEARING IS YOU&apos;RE WRESTLING
STADIUM YOU&apos;RE WRESTLING WITH
WITH THE CHARACTER OF THE
SHOULD IT FEEL LIKE MORE LIKE
STADIUM YOU&apos;RE WRESTLING WITH
THE BSU THAT THAT EVEN HAS SOME
SHOULD IT FEEL LIKE MORE LIKE
STREET TREES BUT IT&apos;S VERY
THE BSU THAT THAT EVEN HAS SOME
URBAN AND I THINK I THINK I&apos;M
STREET TREES BUT IT&apos;S VERY
HEARING A PINCUSHION I THINK
URBAN AND I THINK I THINK I&apos;M
THE SAME WAY I THINK MAYBE SOME
HEARING A PINCUSHION I THINK
OF THE COMMISSIONERS ARE TRYING
THE SAME WAY I THINK MAYBE SOME
TO FIGURE OUT, YOU KNOW,
OF THE COMMISSIONERS ARE TRYING
SNAPPING THE FINGERS WHAT&apos;S THE
TO FIGURE OUT, YOU KNOW,
LONG TERM?
SNAPPING THE FINGERS WHAT&apos;S THE
WHAT IS THIS LOOK LIKE LONG
LONG TERM?
TERM?
WHAT IS THIS LOOK LIKE LONG
I THINK THE MISTAKE OF THINKING
TERM?
WHAT IF IT&apos;S ALL ABOUT THE ZERO
I THINK THE MISTAKE OF THINKING
SET BACK?
WHAT IF IT&apos;S ALL ABOUT THE ZERO
NOBODY CHOOSES TO DO A WIDE A
SET BACK?
DEEPER SET BACK EVEN THOUGH
NOBODY CHOOSES TO DO A WIDE A
IT&apos;S PERMISSIBLE.
DEEPER SET BACK EVEN THOUGH
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE VERY STARK.
IT&apos;S PERMISSIBLE.
BUT I THINK AGAIN, UNLESS WE
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE VERY STARK.
WANT TO MANDATE GREEN THERE IF
BUT I THINK AGAIN, UNLESS WE
THAT I SORT OF THINK THAT&apos;S THE
WANT TO MANDATE GREEN THERE IF
CONVERSATION WE WANT TO MANDATE
THAT I SORT OF THINK THAT&apos;S THE
GREEN THERE.
CONVERSATION WE WANT TO MANDATE
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THIS IS A
GREEN THERE.
SORT OF SLIGHT MODIFICATION.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THIS IS A
IT MIGHT VERY WELL BE THAT WE
SORT OF SLIGHT MODIFICATION.
WANT A SETBACK.
IT MIGHT VERY WELL BE THAT WE
WE WANT A MORE SUBURBAN STYLE
WANT A SETBACK.
SETBACK ALONG THAT CORRIDOR OR
WE WANT A MORE SUBURBAN STYLE
SOME SETBACK THAT IS GOING TO
SETBACK ALONG THAT CORRIDOR OR
PROVIDE SOME GREEN SPACE.
SOME SETBACK THAT IS GOING TO
I WOULD JUST WANT TO CLARIFY A
PROVIDE SOME GREEN SPACE.
LITTLE I WOULD SAY THAT THERE&apos;S
I WOULD JUST WANT TO CLARIFY A
THE GREEN THING.
LITTLE I WOULD SAY THAT THERE&apos;S
THAT&apos;S HOW I STARTED.
THE GREEN THING.
I THINK THE OTHER PIECE FOR ME
THAT&apos;S HOW I STARTED.
IS SAFETY, WHICH IS TO
I THINK THE OTHER PIECE FOR ME
COMMISSIONER DISHES POINT THAT
IS SAFETY, WHICH IS TO
BECAUSE THERE IS THIS IS MUCH
COMMISSIONER DISHES POINT THAT
MORE OF A LINEAR EXPERIENCE
BECAUSE THERE IS THIS IS MUCH
HERE.
MORE OF A LINEAR EXPERIENCE
IT&apos;S NOT THE STREETS THAT COME
HERE.
IN ARE NOT THAT FREQUENT.
IT&apos;S NOT THE STREETS THAT COME
THE BLOCKS ARE REALLY LONG AND
IN ARE NOT THAT FREQUENT.
SO BECAUSE OF THAT THERE&apos;S
THE BLOCKS ARE REALLY LONG AND
GOING TO BE A WHOLE BUNCH
SO BECAUSE OF THAT THERE&apos;S
OF DRIVEWAYS ALL THE WAY
GOING TO BE A WHOLE BUNCH
THROUGH HERE.
OF DRIVEWAYS ALL THE WAY
&gt;&gt; THIS IS NOT GOING TO BE LIKE
THROUGH HERE.
THE DOWNTOWN STREET FRONT THING
&gt;&gt; THIS IS NOT GOING TO BE LIKE
WITH THE ONE ALLEY THAT&apos;S IN
THE DOWNTOWN STREET FRONT THING
THE MIDDLE OF A SHORT BLOCK.
WITH THE ONE ALLEY THAT&apos;S IN
THIS IS MANY THESE ARE MANY,
THE MIDDLE OF A SHORT BLOCK.
MANY, MANY, MANY, MANY DRIVES
THIS IS MANY THESE ARE MANY,
ALONG A STRETCH THAT ARE ALL
MANY, MANY, MANY, MANY DRIVES
GOING TO BE PENETRATING THROUGH
ALONG A STRETCH THAT ARE ALL
THIS THING.
GOING TO BE PENETRATING THROUGH
AND SO THAT&apos;S LIKE THAT&apos;S A
THIS THING.
PIECE OF WHAT I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT
AND SO THAT&apos;S LIKE THAT&apos;S A
TO THE GREEN IS THERE TOO FOR
PIECE OF WHAT I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT
SURE.
TO THE GREEN IS THERE TOO FOR
BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S I THINK THE
SURE.
THE FORM THIS IS WHERE I THINK
BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S I THINK THE
LIKE AND AGAIN I&apos;M I&apos;M OK WITH
THE FORM THIS IS WHERE I THINK
PUTTING THIS OFF BUT I FEEL
LIKE AND AGAIN I&apos;M I&apos;M OK WITH
LIKE AND ULTIMATELY I KNOW THIS
PUTTING THIS OFF BUT I FEEL
IS TOUGH BECAUSE THIS IS LIKE
LIKE AND ULTIMATELY I KNOW THIS
DOING SOME MODELING WHICH IS
IS TOUGH BECAUSE THIS IS LIKE
NOT EASY.
DOING SOME MODELING WHICH IS
I GET IN TERMS OF THE CAPACITY
NOT EASY.
OF STAFF TO DO THIS BUT I THINK
I GET IN TERMS OF THE CAPACITY
THAT WHAT WE HAVE IN OUR HEADS
OF STAFF TO DO THIS BUT I THINK
OF SORT OF THESE BUILDINGS ALL
THAT WHAT WE HAVE IN OUR HEADS
UP CLOSE, IT&apos;S LIKE WE&apos;RE NOT
OF SORT OF THESE BUILDINGS ALL
IMAGINING THAT THERE&apos;S ALSO 25
UP CLOSE, IT&apos;S LIKE WE&apos;RE NOT
DRIVES IN THERE TOO.
IMAGINING THAT THERE&apos;S ALSO 25
AND WHAT THAT REALLY MEANS IN
DRIVES IN THERE TOO.
TERMS OF PEDESTRIANS AND
AND WHAT THAT REALLY MEANS IN
BICYCLISTS AND THINGS LIKE
TERMS OF PEDESTRIANS AND
THAT.
BICYCLISTS AND THINGS LIKE
AND SO I GET THE STREET WALL
THAT.
THING BUT THIS IS WHERE I JUST
AND SO I GET THE STREET WALL
THINK SOME SORT OF MODELING
THING BUT THIS IS WHERE I JUST
OF WHAT THAT&apos;S REALLY GOING TO
THINK SOME SORT OF MODELING
BE IN TERMS OF THAT BECAUSE ALL
OF WHAT THAT&apos;S REALLY GOING TO
BUILDINGS DOWNTOWN IN A PARKING
BE IN TERMS OF THAT BECAUSE ALL
LOT, YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
BUILDINGS DOWNTOWN IN A PARKING
THE THING AND YOU KNOW SO AND
LOT, YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
THE THING AND YOU KNOW SO AND
INFRASTRUCTURE AT PLYMOUTH,
BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
DOES THAT HAVE ANY SIDE STREETS
INFRASTRUCTURE AT PLYMOUTH,
THAT YOUR PARKING LOT GOES OUT
DOES THAT HAVE ANY SIDE STREETS
ONTO THAT SIDE STREET THAT THEN
THAT YOUR PARKING LOT GOES OUT
TAKES YOU TO THE LIGHT THAT
ONTO THAT SIDE STREET THAT THEN
THEN ALLOWS YOU TO GET ON TO
TAKES YOU TO THE LIGHT THAT
THAT?
THEN ALLOWS YOU TO GET ON TO
THAT&apos;S REALLY DIFFERENT.
THAT?
SO THIS IS WHERE AGAIN THEY
THAT&apos;S REALLY DIFFERENT.
JUST ARE IT&apos;S EVEN EASIER TO
SO THIS IS WHERE AGAIN THEY
WASH NOW BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE ALL
JUST ARE IT&apos;S EVEN EASIER TO
CONNECTED SO THEY SHARE THESE
WASH NOW BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE ALL
PARKING LOTS WHEREAS HERE
CONNECTED SO THEY SHARE THESE
THERE&apos;S JUST A WHOLE BUNCH
PARKING LOTS WHEREAS HERE
OF LITTLE SITES AND A LOT
THERE&apos;S JUST A WHOLE BUNCH
OF THESE AND THEN PLUS WE HAVE
OF LITTLE SITES AND A LOT
SOME BIG, HUGE, MASSIVE ONES,
OF THESE AND THEN PLUS WE HAVE
YOU KNOW, SO THERE&apos;S THIS STUFF
SOME BIG, HUGE, MASSIVE ONES,
ALL OVER THE PLACE, YOU KNOW,
YOU KNOW, SO THERE&apos;S THIS STUFF
IN THIS IN THIS DISTRICT.
ALL OVER THE PLACE, YOU KNOW,
&gt;&gt; SO AND I DON&apos;T THINK IT
IN THIS IN THIS DISTRICT.
SOLVES THE CONCERN.
&gt;&gt; SO AND I DON&apos;T THINK IT
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T MEAN TO SAY
SOLVES THE CONCERN.
THAT IT&apos;S NOT A CONCERN BECAUSE
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T MEAN TO SAY
OF THIS BUT I WANT TO COME BACK
THAT IT&apos;S NOT A CONCERN BECAUSE
TO THIS IS ONE OF THE THINGS
OF THIS BUT I WANT TO COME BACK
THAT WE HAVE THE CONVERSATION
TO THIS IS ONE OF THE THINGS
WITH YOUR INTELLIGENCE
THAT WE HAVE THE CONVERSATION
COMMITTEE IS YOU KNOW, ONE
WITH YOUR INTELLIGENCE
OF THE ANALYSIS WAS THE THE
COMMITTEE IS YOU KNOW, ONE
LAND PATTERN HERE IS VERY
OF THE ANALYSIS WAS THE THE
DIFFERENT THAN STATE AND
LAND PATTERN HERE IS VERY
EISENHOWER STATE AND EISENHOWER
DIFFERENT THAN STATE AND
BIG PARCELS STADIUM A BLEND BUT
EISENHOWER STATE AND EISENHOWER
ALSO A LOT OF SMALL PARCELS.
BIG PARCELS STADIUM A BLEND BUT
AND SO I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
ALSO A LOT OF SMALL PARCELS.
THAT THE LIKELY WHATEVER AN
AND SO I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
EXTREME DEVELOPMENT IT LOOKS
THAT THE LIKELY WHATEVER AN
LIKE IT&apos;S PROBABLY GOING TO BE
EXTREME DEVELOPMENT IT LOOKS
LESS CURB CUTS THAN WHAT YOU&apos;RE
LIKE IT&apos;S PROBABLY GOING TO BE
SEEING NOW.
LESS CURB CUTS THAN WHAT YOU&apos;RE
THAT&apos;S NOT TO SAY THAT THERE&apos;S
SEEING NOW.
STILL NOT A LOT NOT TO SAY THAT
THAT&apos;S NOT TO SAY THAT THERE&apos;S
THAT IS NOT AN ISSUE IF THERE&apos;S
STILL NOT A LOT NOT TO SAY THAT
JUST ONE.
THAT IS NOT AN ISSUE IF THERE&apos;S
BUT I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
JUST ONE.
THAT THAT WAS PART OF THE
BUT I DO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
CONVERSATION THAT WE WERE
THAT THAT WAS PART OF THE
WRESTLING WITH IS IT IS ONE
THE
DAIRY QUEEN WHAT IS VERY
UNLIKELY TO RESULT IN
REDEVELOPMENT IF THE DAIRY
QUEEN LOT IS CONSOLIDATED OR
SOMETHING ELSE THAT THOSE
CHANGES HAPPEN AND THAT&apos;S GOING
TO INCREASE THE CHANCES THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE SOME SENSE
IN HOW WE ADJUST AND MODIFY
WHAT MAY START AS MULTIPLE CURB
INTO FEWER CURB CUTS ARE BETTER
ORGANIZED CURB CUTS SO I DO
WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE
POTENTIAL HERE IS THAT THE
PROBLEM GETS BETTER WITH ONE
BUT I DON&apos;T IT IS A IT IS A
DIFFERENT QUARTER SO I JUST
WANT YEAH.
&gt;&gt; AND THAT&apos;S A GOOD POINT.
YOU KNOW PEOPLE MAY END UP
RECOMBINING BUT THAT&apos;S THE
OTHER THING IS IS UNDERSTANDING
WHAT THAT MEANS IN TERMS OF THE
PATTERNS, WHAT&apos;S THERE AND YOU
KNOW HOW ALL THAT MIGHT CHANGE
TO WITH THIS YOU KNOW SO THOSE
ARE ALL THINGS TO CONSIDER TO
ALREADY WE&apos;VE HAD A LONG
DISCUSSION LATE SO ANY OTHER
COMMENTS OK, RIGHTY.
SO I GUESS THE OTHER THING I
JUST WANT TO SAY REALLY BRIEFLY
IS THAT BOY AM I LOOKING
FORWARD TO SOME SORT
OF CITYWIDE VERSION OF WHAT
COMMISSIONER IS TALKING ABOUT
IN TERMS OF INCENTIVES FOR FOR
SUSTAINABILITY, WHETHER IT&apos;S
JUMPING THE LINE OR SOMETHING
BECAUSE I&apos;M BUT I DON&apos;T THINK
IT&apos;S TIED TO JUST THIS DISTRICT
AND I KNOW THAT THERE ARE SOME
CONVERSATIONS IN THE WORKS
AROUND SOME OF THOSE THINGS.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT WAS ALSO
OUT OF NC AND WOULD OVERSEE
RECOMMENDED WAS WE BRING IT TO
ALL OF THE COMMISSION BECAUSE
BECAUSE OUR SENSE WAS THAT THAT
PRESENTED WITH A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT OPTIONS AND WE
WANTED TO DO THEM ALL.
&gt;&gt; WE WANTED TO KNOW WHAT OTHER
PEOPLE THOUGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S COMING.
OK, I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT WOULD GO
DIRECTLY TO HEARING I THINK WE
TALKED ABOUT DOING IT AS A
WORKING SESSION AND ACTUALLY SO
THAT&apos;S THE FEEDBACK TO LIKE IF
YOU IF YOU WOULD HAVE FELT MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH THIS AS A
WORKING SESSION FIRST LIKE
THAT&apos;S GOOD FEEDBACK TO OVERSEE
ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; SO ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE
THEN?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT QUITE ELEVEN AND
THEN WE GET MORE PUBLIC COMMENT
TO WRITE.
I&apos;M EMBARRASSED TO SAY THROUGH
ALL THAT THOUGHTFUL
CONVERSATION I FORGET TO NOTE
WHO MOVED AND SECONDED THE
MOTION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
IS THAT CORRECT?
WAS IT YOU MAY HAVE BEEN IN
ADDITION MILLS ORDER BUT YEAH
WHATEVER OK YEAH I MEAN YOU ALL
CAN FLIP A COIN RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT SO THIS IS ABOUT TO
RECOMMEND THE REZONING AS
PROPOSED COMMISSIONER MILLS.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER GIVE
BRANDELL YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHICH YES THE MOTION CARRIES IS
RECOMMENDED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
.
ALL RIGHTY.
SO NOW WE LIKE THIS.
OH YES.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ON TO ITEM PUBLIC
NINE WHICH IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
SO OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ON
ANY ISSUE WE&apos;LL CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT FIRST THEN
WE&apos;LL MOVE TO THE VIRTUAL IF
YOU&apos;RE CALLING IN PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE TO RAISE A HAND FEATURE FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND AT OUR MEETING AT
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISE YOUR HAND YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
STAR SIX TO ON MUTE EITHER
METHOD STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FIRST PLEASE.
ANYBODY PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK
AGAIN USE THE WORD
THAT COULD NEVER FIT INTO THREE
MINUTES OF COMMENTING ON THE
BACK AND FORTH BUT I DO HAVE A
COUPLE OF POINTS I APPRECIATE
YOUR COMMISSIONER MILLS&apos;
TALKING ABOUT THE WHAT COULD BE
DEVELOPED NOW AND I WOULD
TEMPER MY EARLIER COMMENTS
SOMEWHAT BASED ON THAT AND WHAT
MR. LEO SAID BUT I STILL THINK
THERE IS A SUFFICIENT
INFORMATION BASE FOR PEOPLE TO
REALLY UNDERSTAND C ONE IS
THIRTY FIVE FEET AS THIS PERSON
IS NOW GOING TO BE SEVENTY FIVE
FEET.
I HAVE STILL NOT SEEN A MAP AND
I&apos;VE WORKED PRETTY HARD TO
FIGURE IT OUT.
I HAVEN&apos;T SEEN ANYTHING THAT
WOULD STILL TELL ME THIS PERSON
IS THIS WAY NOW AND THIS WAS
WHAT IT CAN BE UNDER THIS
PROPOSAL YOU&apos;VE GOT A LOT
YOU&apos;VE GOT INTERACTIVE MAP AND
YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH DO A
PARCEL BY PARCEL.
WHY NOT TELL THE RESIDENTS
WHAT&apos;S REALLY GOING TO HAPPEN
MR. BUSH MADE THE I HEARD
PLENTY OF CONCERNS I THINK
YOU&apos;RE PICKING OUT TWO OF THE
ONES THAT ARE THE MOST OBVIOUS
AND EASY TO FUND.
YOU HAVE PEOPLE HERE SAYING
THEY LIKE GREENSPACE.
THEY&apos;RE WORRIED ABOUT SIX
STORIES, SEVEN STORIES BACKED
UP ONTO THEIR THING AND THEIR
BACKYARD AND YOU&apos;RE SAYING
WELL, 19 FLOORS, YOU KNOW,
THREE HUNDRED FEET THERE&apos;S ONLY
ONE PERSON.
SO WHAT THAT WASN&apos;T WHAT THEY
WERE HERE ABOUT AND THE OTHER
THE OTHER COMMENT ABOUT THE THE
PARKING THAT&apos;S PRETTY EASY TO
FILL THAT PARKING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
TOO BAD YOU HAVE TO JUST DEAL
WITH IT, OK?
THE REAL CONCERNS WEREN&apos;T DEALT
WITH AND MY CENTRAL CONCERN I
WASN&apos;T SEEING HERE EARLIER THAT
PEOPLE DON&apos;T READ THINGS OR
LISTEN TO THINGS.
THE QUESTION IS DO YOU DO
ANYTHING WITH THEM?
AND I AND I WOULD STILL SAY
THAT PRETTY MUCH EVERY TIME
I&apos;VE COME HERE OR A CITY
COUNCIL RECENTLY ON ISSUES LIKE
THIS PEOPLE POLITELY LISTEN AND
IGNORE EVERYTHING THEY DON&apos;T
TAKE TO ACTUALLY DO ANYTHING
WITH ANY COMMENTS THAT ARE MADE
BY PEOPLE THAT DON&apos;T SHARE THE
IDEOLOGY THAT THAT YOU&apos;RE
COMING FROM AS A GROUP.
AND I STAND BY THAT COMMENT.
THE THIRD ITEM ON YOUR AND YOUR
COMMENT ABOUT STADIUM HARDWARE,
I FIND THAT TO BE PRETTY NAIVE.
NOBODY WOULD KNOCK THE STADIUM
HARDWARE DOWN AND BUILD IT AND
THEN BRING THEM BACK A YEAR
LATER.
WHAT&apos;S THEIR BUSINESS DO IN THE
MEANTIME?
THEY&apos;RE DEAD .
I MEAN I USED TO REPRESENT
DEVELOPERS.
I USED TO REPRESENT THE
DEVELOPER WESKIT PEOPLE DON&apos;T
THINK LIKE THAT THEY&apos;RE GOING
TO BUILD IT AND THEN THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO PUT SOMETHING ELSE IN
THERE AND STADIUM HARDWARE WHAT
ARE THEY GOING TO DO MOVE TO
SOMEPLACE OUT ON JACKSON ROAD
FOR A YEAR AND THEN TRY TO COME
BACK IN THERE?
THAT&apos;S ABSURD AND IT SHOULDN&apos;T
EVEN ENTER THE DISCUSSION THE
THE AND TO COMMISSIONER JUST AS
THE THERE IS A THIS IS THE ONE
THING THAT COULD BE REQUIRED
YOU CAN&apos;T REQUIRE AFFORDABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY.
I GET THAT YOU CAN REQUIRE
MIXED USE BUT YOU WON&apos;T AND AND
THE POINT IS I STAND WHAT I
SAID EARLIER EVERY SINGLE NEW
RESIDENTIAL USER IS ARE
BUSINESSES THAT ARE GONE AND
YOU COULD PREVENT THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU WANT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
WHAT I HEAR.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT HERE
?
&gt;&gt; HI, ALEX.
I LIVE ON FERNWOOD AVENUE IN
WARD THREE.
I&apos;M REALLY GRATEFUL TO EVERYONE
HERE FOR THE GOOD DISCUSSION
THAT YOU&apos;VE HAD AND THE
LISTENING THAT YOU THAT YOU
VERY CLEARLY HAVE DONE.
I&apos;M SORRY TO THE OTHER
COMMENTER BUT THAT HE FEELS
UNHEARD OF JUST BECAUSE AFTER
LISTENING TO HIS COMMENTS,
UNDERSTANDING THEM AND
DISCUSSING YOU STILL DISAGREE
WITH THEM.
BUT YEAH, THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S THE
NATURE OF DEMOCRACY.
THAT&apos;S THE NATURE OF HUMAN
BEINGS.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT WE JUST HAD
AN ELECTION THAT GAVE THE CITY
A VERY CLEAR MANDATE FOR WHAT
FOR WHAT WE SHOULD BE DOING AND
I HONESTLY BELIEVE THAT THAT
MANDATE SAYS WE NEED TO BE
DOING MORE OF THIS.
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHAT I WOULD LIKE
TO SEE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE IN THE ROOM THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK, MR.
LEINERT?
ANYBODY VIRTUALLY.
YES.
CALL OVER THE PHONE NUMBER
ANYWHERE WITH FOUR ZERO THREE
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES.
HELLO.
YES, WE CAN HEAR YOU BUT THANK
YOU ALL.
I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU
MAXIMUM APPRECIATION FOR
PASSENGERS ON THE COUNCIL BY
LOOK FORWARD TO YOU KNOW,
OBVIOUSLY THERE&apos;S THE
DISCUSSION ABOUT ISSUES THAT
WE&apos;RE REALLY TRYING TO DO AND
THAT IS PRETTY DRY, PRETTY
DRASTIC CHANGE AND I THINK I
WAS THERE ARE THERE DETAILED
GUIDELINES BEING ALREADY MADE
ABOUT AND ARE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO BE REFINED?
THAT&apos;S GREAT NEWS .
I NEW THAT PEOPLE CAN FOCUS AND
BE WORRIED ABOUT DOING
SOMETHING NEW AND
THIS AND
DIFFERENT AND VALUABLE SPACES
BECAUSE THEY LOOK LIKE THE ONES
THAT ARE IN INFESTED PARKING
LOTS OF STRIP MALLS ALL OVER
THE ENTIRE COUNTRY.
PEOPLE ARE DOING THIS BY THE
END FOR A DECADE.
SO WE&apos;VE DECIDED THAT, YOU
KNOW, OPPORTUNITY TO DO MUCH
BETTER WITH LAND AND I DON&apos;T
KNOW THANK YOU FOR HAVING SOME
VISION AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
LOT OF PEOPLE GETTING ON WITH
THIS VISION AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO IN FIVE TO TWENTY YEARS WHAT
RESULTED FROM IT ALL.
&gt;&gt; THANKS VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; CALLED THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH TWO SEVEN FOUR IN
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION
.
OH YES.
WE CAN HEAR YOU.
YES WE CAN HEAR YOU
GO.
YOU GOT ANOTHER ONE WE CAN HEAR
YOU.
&gt;&gt; OH I PROBABLY I WANTED TO
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR HARD
WORK AND EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION FOR THE DIFFICULTY
OF NAVIGATING THESE KINDS
OF CHANGES AND WHO REALLY JUST
EXPRESS MY ADMIRATION AND
GRATITUDE FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION COMING TOGETHER TO
REALLY VERY ADDRESS OUR CAN WE
MAKE THE CITY MORE LIVABLE FOR
MORE PEOPLE AND CREATE HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES TO CREATE HOUSING
FOR PEOPLE RATHER THAN GUARDER
AND TO CREATE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHERE THERE&apos;S CURRENTLY PARKING
LOT AND STRUGGLES THAT I KNOW
THAT IT IS A DIFFICULT AND TIME
CONSUMING PROCESS AND I JUST
REALLY WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
THAT HARD THAT HARD WORK AND
I&apos;M JUST REALLY EXCITED TO
REALLY THINK ABOUT THE KIND
OF COMMUNITY THAT WE&apos;RE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO CREATE ON WHAT
STADIUM AND ALSO BY A
BIOETHANOL.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH THREE, FOUR OR FIVE, YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO GIVE THE
COMMISSIONER BACK HELLO KITTY
CAT AGAIN.
I JUST HAD TO CALL IN BECAUSE I
HEARD COMMISSIONER WIFE THINK
SOMETHING THAT WAS SO
RIDICULOUS.
HE SAID IF STADIUM HARDWARE
DIDN&apos;T HAVE ANY HARKING BACK
PLEASE ME JUST FINE.
ARE YOU KIDDING ME?
NO, THEY WOULD NOT BE FINED.
PEOPLE GO TO A HARDWARE STORE
SOMETIMES THEY NEED TO PICK UP
LARGE THINGS THEY CAN&apos;T BE
WALKING AROUND JUST THROWING IN
THE HARDWARE STORE.
NO, THEY NEED THAT PARKING AND
OTHER THING I WAS REALLY
PLEASANTLY SURPRISED TO HEAR
SOME DISCUSSION ABOUT THAT BACK
AND GREEN IT WAS MOSTLY
COMMISSIONER RANDALL, THANK YOU
SO MUCH TO YOU BECAUSE YOU SEEM
TO BE THE ONLY ONE WHO DRANK
THE KOOL-AID.
I&apos;M THE COMMISSIONER PARDON ME
BUT THE REST OF THEM BUT THEN
AND I WAS SURPRISED TO HEAR
THAT NOT ALL OF FLYNN
COMMISSION EVEN KNEW WHAT WENT
ON WITH THAT OR C MEETING SO I
MEAN I KNOW THOSE MEETINGS ARE
NOT RECORDED SO THE PUBLIC HAS
NO WAY TO KNOW WHAT GOES ON.
&gt;&gt; BUT I THOUGHT AT LEAST ALL
OF THEM EVERY GOOD PLANNING
COMMISSION WOULD KNOW.
I KNOW SEEMS LIKE IT&apos;S SOME
KIND OF SECRET COMMISSION.
SO ANYWAY AND I WANT TO KNOW
HOW MANY PLANNING COMMISSIONER
CORPS AT THAT OR IF THE MEETING
WAS AT OR WAS IT THREE WAS IT
TWO?
I WOULD LIKE AN ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION FOR YOU ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; I WAS HAPPY TO SEE
DISCUSSION ABOUT GREEN BAGS AND
BAGS BUT AGAIN YOU WENT AHEAD
AND APPROVED IT UNANIMOUSLY
ANYWAY SIX WEEKS LATER YOU KNOW
I AM NOT NAIVE ENOUGH TO THINK
THERE ARE GOING TO BE ANY
TWEAKS LATER.
THIS IS A CITY COUNCIL AND IT&apos;S
GOT TO BE APPROVED BECAUSE THE
MINORITY EVEN THOUGH IT&apos;S NOT A
SUPER MAJORITY YET, THERE ARE
STILL ENOUGH VOTES TO APPROVE
AND IT&apos;LL BE A SUPER MAJORITY
AND ANYTHING GOES WHY EVEN
BOTHER TO DISCUSS ANY THANK YOU
SO ANGRY.
I&apos;M SHAKING.
SORRY NO I&apos;M NOT SORRY.
&gt;&gt; OK, BYE.
THANK YOU.
NO MA&apos;AM BUT I&apos;M JUST YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES SO NO JUST
JUMPING THE GUN BECAUSE SO MANY
DISCOVERED IN THE FOURTH
QUARTER AND LAS VEGAS TRIED TO
STUFFIES CORRIDOR.
THANK YOU FOR PASSING THIS AND
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION A
COUPLE OF THE CALLERS LIKE I
KNOW I KNOW IT&apos;S FRUSTRATING
WHEN IT KIND OF FEELS LIKE
YOU&apos;RE NOT REALLY BEING HEARD
AND YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF PUBLIC INPUT COMING IN FROM
A LOT OF DIFFERENT PEOPLE AND
DIFFERENT MEETINGS AND AND YOU
KNOW, NOT EVERYBODY IS RIGHT.
SO THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE SOME
PEOPLE WHO ARE FRUSTRATED WITH
THE OUTCOMES AND YOU KNOW, I&apos;VE
BEEN THERE PLENTY OF TIMES AND
YOU KNOW, I&apos;M SURE THERE WILL
BE SITUATIONS IN THE FUTURE
WHERE I&apos;M FRUSTRATED WITH THE
OUTCOMES OF THINGS.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK I THINK
WE&apos;VE ALL TO PAY ATTENTION AND
PROVIDE OUR INPUT.
WE&apos;RE WHERE WE THINK WE CAN
PROVIDE IT AND KEEP ON KEEPING
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS ARE
INDICATING A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
THE QUESTION.
OK, I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
QUICKLY SAY THAT THE ORDINANCE
REVIEW COMMITTEE IS NOT SOME
SORT OF SECRET SOCIETY BUT IT
IS A SMALL SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION BECAUSE WE
ALL ARE WE ALL DO OTHER WORK
BESIDES BEING ON PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WE ARE ON EITHER
SMALLER COMMITTEES OR WE ARE
LIAISONS TO OTHER GROUPS AND WE
JUST CAN&apos;T BE EVERYWHERE AT
ONCE AND WE ARE VERY GRATEFUL
FOR THE PEOPLE THAT DO SERVE ON
THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT THEY CAN BE A
SOUNDING BOARD FOR THIS SO THAT
ALL OF US GO TO THESE THINGS
OTHERWISE NONE OF US WOULD
SLEEP.
SO JUST TO SAY THAT BEFORE WE
MOVED ON TO ITEM TEN WHICH IS
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
COMMISSIONER WHICH JUST TWO
THINGS ONE AND THAT MEETING IS
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
IT IS AND YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE TO
IT VIA THE OF DELIVERY EMAIL
AND YOU WILL RECEIVE A
NOTIFICATION BECAUSE THAT&apos;S HOW
I&apos;M INFORMED THAT THAT MEETING
HAPPENS THAT HAS THE LINK TO
THE MEETING IN THAT
NOTIFICATION AND COMES FROM THE
PLANNING OFFICE.
I JUST WANTED TO ASK MR.
LEONARD WHAT OUR ETA IS ON THE
FORMATION OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE BECAUSE I
THINK WE HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN OUR COMMUNITY THAT WOULD
LIKE US TO GET GOING WITH THE
CONFERENCE PLAN RFP PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU HAVE AN UPDATE TO
SHARE I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE IT
OTHERWISE I WON&apos;T.
SO THE COMMITTEE HAS ALREADY
CREATED YOU&apos;VE APPOINTED A
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THAT?
I WILL BE REACHING OUT TO THAT
COMMITTEE.
UM, SOMETIME BETWEEN UM I HOPE
BY THE END OF THIS WEEK TO
START SOLICITING SOME POTENTIAL
DATES.
MY INTENTION IS TO SHARE WITH
THAT COMMITTEE AND SOLICIT
FEEDBACK FROM THAT COMMITTEE AS
TO A PROPOSED SCOPE DESCRIPTION
THAT I HAVE DRAFTED FOR
REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS FOR
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS TO
HELP WITH THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO I WILL FIRST BE REACHING
OUT TO SCHEDULE THAT MEETING
THEN AS YOU DESCRIBE THAT
MEETING WILL BE ADVERTISED
SIMILARLY TO THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE IF PEOPLE
ARE INTERESTED IN THAT IT WILL
LIKELY BE HOW WE ASSUME AND WE
WILL ALSO SHARE THAT
INFORMATION VIA A DELIVERY.
SO IF ANYBODY IS INTERESTED IN
THAT THEY CAN STAY ATTUNED TO
IT AFTER THAT MEETING I HOPE TO
IF I&apos;M CLOSE I&apos;M HOPING TO THEN
MOVE ON TO ISSUING THAT REQUEST
FOR PROPOSALS AND START
SOLICITING PROPOSALS FROM THE
PROFESSIONAL PLANNING COMMUNITY
TO HELP US KICK OFF THAT
PROCESS ALREADY WE ARE ON
ADJOURNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER, RIGHT.
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER.
YES.
GOOD NIGHT EVERYONE.
&gt;&gt; YOU NEED